
Abscess:Fermenting thoughts over hurts, slights, and revenge. I allow
my thoughts to be free. The past is over. I am at peace.

Accidents:Inability to speak up for the self. Rebellion against
authority.Belief in violence.I release the pattern in me that created
this. I am at peace.I am worthwhile.

Aches:Longing for love. Longing to be held.I love and approve of
myself. I am loving and lovable.

Acne:Not accepting the self. Dislike of the self.I am a Divine
expression of life. I love and accept myself where I am right now.

Addictions:Running from the self. Fear. Not knowing how to love the
self.I now discover how wonderful I am. I choose to love and enjoy
myself.

Addison’s Disease [See: Adrenal Problems]:Severe emotional
malnutrition. Anger at the self.I lovingly take care of my body, my
mind, and my emotions.

Adenoids: Family friction, arguments. Child feeling unwelcome, in the
way. This child is wanted and welcomed and deeply loved.

Adrenal Problems [See: Addison’s Disease, Cushing’s Dis-ease]:
Defeatism. No longer caring for the self. Anxiety. I love and approve
of myself. It is safe for me to care for myself.

Aging Problems: Social beliefs. Old thinking. Fear of being one’s
self. Rejection of the now. I love and accept myself at every
age. Each moment in life is perfect.

AIDS: Feeling defenseless and hopeless. Nobody cares. A strong belief
in not being good enough. Denial of the self. Sexual guilt. I am part
of the Universal design. I am important and I am loved by Life
itself. I am powerful and capable. I love and appreciate all of
myself.

Alcoholism: “What’s the use?” Feeling of futility, guilt,
inadequacy. Self-rejection. I live in the now. Each moment is new. I
choose to see my self-worth. I love and approve of myself.

Allergies [See: Hay Fever]: Who are you allergic to? Denying your own
power. The world is safe and friendly. I am safe. I am at peace with
life.

Alzheimer’s Disease [See: Dementia, Senility]: Refusal to deal with
the world as it is. Hopelessness and helplessness. Anger.

There is always a new and better way for me to experience life. I
forgive and release the past. I move into joy.

Amenorrhea [See: Female Problems, Menstrual Problems]: Not wanting to
be a woman. Dislike of the self. I rejoice in who I am. I am a
beautiful expression of life, flowing perfectly at all times.

Amnesia: Fear. Running from life. Inability to stand up for the
self. Intelligence, courage, and self-worth are always present. It is
safe to be alive.

Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (Lou Gehrig’s Disease): Unwillingness to
accept self-worth. Denial of success.  I know I am worthwhile. It is
safe for me to succeed. Life loves me.

Anemia: “Yes-but” attitude. Lack of joy. Fear of life. Not feeling
good enough. It is safe for me to experience joy in every area of my
life. I love life.

Ankle(s): Inflexibility and guilt. Ankles represent the ability to
receive pleasure. I deserve to rejoice in life. I accept all the
pleasure life has to offer.

Anorectal Bleeding (Hematochezia): Anger and frustration. I trust the
process of life. Only right and good action is taking place in my
life.

Anorexia [See: Appetite, Loss of]: Denying the self. Extreme fear,
self-hatred, and rejection. It is safe to be me. I am wonderful just
as I am. I choose to live. I choose joy and self-acceptance.

Anus [See: Hemorrhoids]: Releasing point. Dumping ground. I easily and
comfortably release that which I no longer need in life.

- Abscess:Anger in relation to what you don’t want to release.It is
  safe to let go. Only that which I no longer need leaves my body.

- Bleeding [See: Anorectal Bleeding]

- Fistula:Incomplete releasing of trash.Holding on to garbage of the
  past.It is with love that I totally release the past. I am free. I
  am love.

- Itching (Pruritis Ani):Guilt over the past. Remorse.I lovingly
  forgive myself. I am free.

- Pain:Guilt. Desire for punishment. Not feeling good enough.The past
  is over. I choose to love and approve of myself in the now.

Anxiety: Not trusting the flow and the process of life. I love and
approve of myself and I trust the process of life. I am safe.

Apathy: Resistance to feeling. Deadening of the self. Fear. It is safe
to feel. I open myself to life. I am willing to experience life.

Appendicitis: Fear. Fear of life. Blocking the flow of good. I am
safe, I relax and let life flow joyously. Appetite:

- Excessive:Fear. Needing protection. Judging the emotions.I am
  safe. It is safe to feel. My feelings are normal and acceptable.

- Loss of [See: Anorexia]:Fear. Protecting the self. Not trusting
  life.I love and approve of myself. I am safe. Life is safe and
  joyous.

Arm(s): Represents the capacity and ability to hold the experiences of
life. I lovingly hold and embrace my experiences with ease and with
joy.

Arteries: Carry the joy of life. I am filled with joy. It flows
through me with every beat of my heart.

Arteriosclerosis: Resistance, tension. Hardened
narrow-mindedness. Refusing to see good. I am completely open to life
and to joy. I choose to see with love.

Arthritic Fingers: A desire to punish. Blame. Feeling victimized. I
see with love and understanding. I hold all my experiences up to the
light of love.

Arthritis [See: Joints]: Feeling unloved. Criticism, resentment. I am
love. I now choose to love and approve of myself. I see others with
love.

Asphyxiating Attacks [See: Breathing Problems, Hyperventilation]:
Fear. Not trusting the process of life. Getting stuck in childhood. It
is safe to grow up. The world is safe. I am safe.

Asthma: Smother love. Inability to breathe for one’s self. Feeling
stifled. Suppressed crying. It is safe now for me to take charge of my
own life. I choose to be free.
- Babies and ChildrenFear of life. Not wanting to be here.This child
  is safe and loved. This child is welcomed and cherished.

Athlete’s Foot: Frustration at not being accepted. Inability to move
forward with ease. I love and approve of myself. I give myself
permission to go ahead. It is safe to move.

Back: Represents the support of life. I know that Life always supports
me.

Back Problems:

- Lower:Fear of money. Lack of financial support.I trust the process
  of life. All I need is always taken care of.I am safe.

- Middle:Guilt. Stuck in all that stuff back there. “Get off my
  back.”I release the past. I am free to move forward with love in my
  heart.

- Upper:Lack of emotional support. Feeling unloved. Holding back
  love. I love and approve of myself. Life supports and loves me.

Bad Breath [See: Halitosis]: Anger and revenge thoughts. Experiences
backing up. I release the past with love. I choose to voice only love.

Balance, Loss of: Scattered thinking. Not centered. I center myself in
safety and accept the perfection of my life. All is well.

Baldness: Fear. Tension. Trying to control everything. Not trusting
the process of life. I am safe. I love and approve of myself. I trust
life.

Bedwetting (Enuresis): Fear of parent, usually the father. This child
is seen with love, with compassion, and with understanding. All is
well.

Belching: Fear. Gulping life too quickly. There is time and space for
everything I need to do. I am at peace.

Bell’s Palsy [See: Palsy, Paralysis]: Extreme control over
anger. Unwillingness to express feelings. It is safe for me to express
my feelings. I forgive myself.

Birth: Represents the entering of this segment of the movie of
life. This baby now begins a joyous and wonderful new life. All is
well.
- Defects:Karmic. You selected to come that way. We choose our parents
  and our children. Unfinished business.Every experience is perfect
  for our growth process. I am at peace with where I am.

Bites: Fear. Open to every slight. I forgive myself and I love myself
now and forever more.
- Animal:Anger turned inward. A need for punishment.I am free.
- Bug:Guilt over small things.I am free of all irritations. All is
  well.

Blackheads: Small outbursts of anger. I calm my thoughts and I am
serene.

Bladder Problems (Cystitis): Anxiety. Holding on to old ideas. Fear of
letting go. Being pissed off. I comfortably and easily release the old
and welcome the new in my life. I am safe.

Bleeding: Joy running out. Anger. But where? I am the joy of Life
expressing and receiving in perfect rhythm.

Bleeding Gums: Lack of joy in the decision made in life. I trust that
right action is always taking place in my life. I am at peace.

Blisters: Resistance. Lack of emotional protection. I gently flow with
life and each new experience. All is well.

Blood: Represents joy in the body, flowing freely. I am the joy of
Life expressing and receiving.

Blood Pressure:
- High (Hypertension):Long-standing emotional problem not solved.I
  joyously release the past. I am at peace.
- Low:Lack of love as a child. Defeatism. “What’s the use? It won’t
  work anyway.”I now choose to live in the ever-joyous NOW. My life is
  a joy.

Blood Problems [See: Leukemia]: Lack of joy. Lack of circulation of
ideas. Joyous new ideas are circulating freely within me.
- Anemic:See: Anemia
- Clotting:Closing down the flow of joy.I awaken new life within me. I
  flow.

Body Odor: Fear. Dislike of the self. Fear of others. I love and
approve of myself. I am safe.

Boils (Furuncle) [See: Carbuncle]: Anger. Boiled over. Seething. I
express love and joy and I am at peace.

Bone(s) [See: Skeleton]: Represents the structure of the Universe. I
am well structured and balanced.

Bone Marrow: Represents deepest beliefs about the self. How you
support and care for yourself. Divine Spirit is the structure of my
life. I am safe and loved and totally supported.

Bone Problems:

- Breaks/Fractures:Rebelling against authority.In my world, I am my
  own authority, for I am the only one who thinks in my mind.

- Deformity [See: Osteomyelitis, Osteoporosis]:Mental pressures and
  tightness. Muscles can’t stretch.Loss of mental mobility.I breathe
  in life fully. I relax and trust the flow and the process of life.

Bowels: Represents the release of waste. Letting go is easy.

- Problems:Fear of letting go of the old and no longer needed.I freely
  and easily release the old and joyously welcome the new.

Brain: Represents the computer, the switchboard. I am the loving
operator of my mind.

- Tumor:Incorrect computerized beliefs. Stubborn. Refusing to change
  old patterns.It is easy for me to reprogram the computer of my
  mind. All of life is change, and my mind is ever new.

Breast(s): Represents mothering and nurturing and nourishment. I take
in and give out nourishment in perfect balance. Breast Problems:

- Cysts, Lumps, Soreness (Mastitis) A refusal to nourish the
  self. Putting everyone else first.Overmothering. Overprotection.
  Overbearing attitudes.I am important. I count. I now care for and
  nourish myself with love and with joy. I allow others the freedom
  to be who they are.We are all safe and free.

Breath: Represents the ability to take in life. I love life. It is
safe to live. Breathing Problems [See: Asphyxiating Attacks,
Hyperventilation]: Fear or refusal to take in life fully. Not feeling
the right to take up space or even exist. It is my birthright to live
fully and freely. I am worth loving. I now choose to live life fully.

Bright’s Disease [See: Nephritis]: Feeling like a kid who can’t do it
right and is not good enough. A failure. Loss. I love and approve of
myself. I care for me. I am totally adequate at all times.

Bronchitis [See: Respiratory Ailments]: Inflamed family
environment. Arguments and yelling. Sometimes silent. I declare peace
and harmony within me and around me. All is well.

Bruises (Ecchymoses): The little bumps in life. Self-punishment. I
love and cherish myself. I am kind and gentle with me. All is well.

Bulimia: Hopeless terror. A frantic stuffing and purging of
self-hatred. I am loved and nourished and supported by Life itself. It
is safe for me to be alive.

Bunions: Lack of joy in meeting the experiences of life. I joyously
run forward to greet life’s wonderful experiences.

Burns: Anger. Burning up. Incensed. I create only peace and harmony
within myself and in my environment. I deserve to feel good.

Bursitis: Repressed anger. Wanting to hit someone. Love relaxes and
releases all unlike itself.

Buttocks: Represents power. Loose Buttocks, loss of power. I use my
power wisely. I am strong. I am safe. All is well.

Callouses: Hardened concepts and ideas. Fear solidified. It is safe to
see and experience new ideas and new ways. I am open and receptive to
good.

Cancer: Deep hurt. Longstanding resentment. Deep secret or grief
eating away at the self. Carrying hatreds. “What’s the use?” I
lovingly forgive and release all of the past. I choose to fill my
world with joy. I love and approve of myself.

Candida (Candidiasis) [See: Thrush, Yeast Infections]: Feeling very
scattered. Lots of frustration and anger. Demanding and untrusting in
relationships. Great takers. I give myself permission to be all that I
can be, and I deserve the very best in life. I love and appreciate
myself and others.

Canker Sores: Festering words held back by the lips. Blame. I create
only joyful experiences in my loving world.

Car Sickness [See: Motion Sickness]: Fear. Bondage. Feeling of being
trapped. I move with ease through time and space. Only love surrounds
me.

Carbuncle [See: Boils]: Poisonous anger about personal injustices. I
release the past and allow time to heal every area of my
life. Carpal-Tunnel Syndrome [See: Wrist]: Anger and frustration at
life’s seeming injustices. I now choose to create a life that is
joyous and abundant. I am at ease.

Cataracts: Inability to see ahead with joy. Dark future. Life is
eternal and filled with joy. I look forward to every moment.

Cellulite: Stored anger and self-punishment. I forgive others. I
forgive myself. I am free to love and enjoy life.

Cerebral Palsy [See: Palsy]: A need to unite the family in an action
of love. I contribute to a united, loving, and peaceful family
life. All is well.

Cerebrovascular Accident [See: Stroke]

Childhood Dis-eases: Belief in calendars and social concepts and false
laws. Childish behavior in the adults around them. This child is
Divinely protected and surrounded by love. We claim mental immunity.

Chills: Mental contraction, pulling away and in. Desire to
retreat. “Leave me alone.” I am safe and secure at all times. Love
surrounds me and protects me. All is well.

Cholelithiasis [See: Gallstones]

Cholesterol (Atherosclerosis): Clogging the channels of joy. Fear of
accepting joy. I choose to love life. My channels of joy are wide
open. It is safe to receive.

Chronic Diseases: A refusal to change. Fear of the future. Not feeling
safe. I am willing to change and to grow. I now create a safe, new
future.

Circulation: Represents the ability to feel and express the emotions
in positive ways. I am free to circulate love and joy in every part of
my world. I love life.

Cold Sores (Fever Blisters) [See: Herpes Simplex]: Festering angry
words and fear of expressing them. I only create peaceful experiences
because I love myself. All is well.

Colds (Upper-Respiratory Illness) [See: Respiratory Ailments]: Too
much going on at once. Mental confusion, disorder. Small hurts. “I get
three colds every winter,” type of belief. I allow my mind to relax
and be at peace. Clarity and harmony are within me and around me. All
is well.

Colic: Mental irritation, impatience, annoyance in the
surroundings. This child responds only to love and to loving
thoughts. All is peaceful.

Colitis [See: Colon, Intestines, Mucus Colon, Spastic Colitis]:
Insecurity. Represents the ease of letting go of that which is over. I
am part of the perfect rhythm and flow of life. All is in Divine right
order.

Colon: Fear of letting go. Holding on to the past. I easily release
that which I no longer need. The past is over, and I am free.

Coma: Fear. Escaping something or someone. We surround you with safety
and love. We create a space for you to heal. You are loved.

Comedones: Small outbursts of anger. I calm my thoughts and I am
serene.

Congestion [See: Bronchitis, Colds, Influenza] Conjunctivitis [See:
Pink Eye]: Anger and frustration at what you are looking at in life. I
see with eyes of love. There is a harmonious solution, and I accept it
now.

Constipation: Refusing to release old ideas. Stuck in the
past. Sometimes stinginess. As I release the past, the new and fresh
and vital enter. I allow life to flow through me.

Corns: Hardened areas of thought - stubbornly holding on to the pain
of the past. I move forward, free from the past. I am safe, I am
free. Coronary Thrombosis [See: Heart Attack]: Feeling alone and
scared. “I’m not good enough. I don’t do enough. I’ll never make it.”
I am one with all of life. The Universe totally supports me. All is
well.

Coughs [See: Respiratory Ailments]: A desire to bark at the
world. “See me! Listen to me!” I am noticed and appreciated in the
most positive ways. I am loved.

Cramps: Tension. Fear. Gripping, holding on. I relax and allow my mind
to be peaceful. Croup [See: Bronchitis]

Crying: Tears are the river of life, shed in joy as well as in sadness
and fear. I am peaceful with all of my emotions. I love and approve of
myself.

Cushing’s Disease [See: Adrenal Problems]: Mental
imbalance. Overproduction of crushing ideas. A feeling of being
overpowered. I lovingly balance my mind and my body. I now choose
thoughts that make me feel good.

Cuts [See: Injuries, Wounds]: Punishment for not following your own
rules. I create a life filled with rewards.

Cyst(s): Running the old painful movie. Nursing hurts. A false
growth. The movies of my mind are beautiful because I choose to make
them so. I love me.

Cystic Fibrosis: A thick belief that life won’t work for you. “Poor
me.” Life loves me, and I love life. I now choose to take in life
fully and freely.

Cystitis [See: Bladder Problems]

Deafness: Rejection, stubbornness, isolation. What don’t you want to
hear? “Don’t bother me.” I listen to the Divine and rejoice at all
that I am able to hear. I am one with all.

Death: Represents leaving the movie of life. I joyfully move on to new
levels of experience. All is well.

Dementia [See: Alzheimer’s Disease, Senility]: A refusal to deal with
the world as it is. Hopelessness and anger. I am in my perfect place,
and I am safe at all times.

Depression: Anger you feel you do not have a right to
have. Hopelessness. I now go beyond other people’s fears and
limitations. I create my life.

Diabetes (Hyperglycemia, Mellitus): Longing for what might have
been. A great need to control. Deep sorrow. No sweetness left. This
moment is filled with joy. I now choose to experience the sweetness of
today.

Diarrhea: Fear. Rejection. Running off. My intake, assimilation, and
elimination are in perfect order. I am at peace with life.

Dizziness (Vertigo): Flighty, scattered thinking. A refusal to look. I
am deeply centered and peaceful in life. It is safe for me to be alive
and joyous.

Dry Eye: Angry eyes. Refusing to see with love. Would rather die than
forgive. Being spiteful. I willingly forgive. I breathe life into my
vision and see with compassion and understanding.

Dysentery: Fear and intense anger. I create peacefulness in my mind,
and my body reflects this.

- Amoebic:Believing they are out to get you.I am the power and
  authority in my world. I am at peace.

- Bacillary:Oppression and hopelessness.I am filled with life and
  energy and the joy of living.

Dysmenorrhea [See: Female Problems, Menstrual Problems]: Anger at the
self. Hatred of the body or of women. I love my body. I love myself. I
love all my cycles. All is well.

Ear(s): Represents the capacity to hear. I hear with love.

Earache (Otitis: External/Ear Canal Media/Inner Ear): Anger. Not
wanting to hear. Too much turmoil. Parents arguing. Harmony surrounds
me. I listen with love to the pleasant and the good. I am a center for
love.

Ecchymoses [See: Bruises]

Eczema: Breath-taking antagonism. Mental eruptions. Harmony and peace,
love and joy surround me and indwell me. I am safe and secure.

Edema [See: Holding Fluids, Swelling]: What or who won’t you let go
of? I willingly release the past. It is safe for me to let go. I am
free now.

Elbow [See: Joints]: Represents changing directions and accepting new
experiences. I easily flow with new experiences, new directions, and
new changes.

Emphysema: Fear of taking in life. Not worthy of living. It is my
birthright to live fully and freely. I love life. I love me.

Endometriosis: Insecurity, disappointment, and frustration. Replacing
self-love with sugar. Blamers. I am both powerful and desirable. It’s
wonderful to be a woman. I love myself, and I am fulfilled.

Enuresis [See: Bedwetting]

Epilepsy: Sense of persecution. Rejection of life. A feeling of great
struggle. Self-violence. I choose to see life as eternal and joyous. I
am eternal and joyous and at peace.

Epstein-Barr Virus: Pushing beyond one’s limits. Fear of not being
good enough. Draining all inner support. Stress virus. I relax and
recognize my self-worth. I am good enough. Life is easy and joyful.

Exotropia [See: Eye Problems]

Eye(s): Represents the capacity to see clearly - past, present, and
future. I see with love and joy.

Eye Problems [See: Sty]: Not liking what you see in your own life. I
now create a life I love to look at.

- Astigmatism:“I” trouble. Fear of really seeing the self.I am now
  willing to see my own beauty and magnificence.

- Cataracts:Inability to see ahead with joy. Dark future.Life is
  eternal and filled with joy.

- Children:Not wanting to see what is going on in the family.Harmony
  and joy and beauty and safety now surround this child.

- Crossed [See: Keratitis]:Not wanting to see what’s out
  there. Crossed purposes.It is safe for me to see. I am at peace.

- Farsighted (Hyperopia):Fear of the present.I am safe in the here and
  now. I see that clearly.

- Glaucoma:Stony unforgiveness. Pressure from long-standing
  hurts.Overwhelmed by it all.I see with love and tenderness.

- Nearsighted [See: Myopia]:Fear of the future.I accept Divine
  guidance and am always safe.

- Wall Eyed (Exotropia):Fear of looking at the present, right here.I
  love and approve of myself right now .

Face: Represents what we show the world. It is safe to be me. I express who I am.

Fainting (Vasovagal Attack): Fear. Can’t cope. Blacking out. I have
the power and strength and knowledge to handle everything in my life.

Fat [See: Overweight]: Oversensitivity. Often represents fear and
shows a need for protection. Fear may be a cover for hidden anger and
a resistance to forgive. I am protected by Divine Love. I am always
safe and secure. I am willing to grow up and take responsibility for
my life. I forgive others, and I now create my own life the way I want
it. I am safe.

- Arms:Anger at being denied love.It is safe for me to create all the
  love I want.

- Belly:Anger at being denied nourishment.I nourish myself with
  spiritual food, and I am satisfied and free.

- Hips:Lumps of stubborn anger at the parents.I am willing to forgive
  the past. It is safe for me to go beyond my parents’ limitations.

- Thighs:Packed childhood anger. Often rage at the father.I see my
  father as a loveless child, and I forgive easily.We are both free.

Fatigue: Resistance, boredom. Lack of love for what one does. I am
enthusiastic about life and filled with energy and enthusiasm.

Feet: Represents our understanding - of ourselves, of life, of
others. My understanding is clear, and I am willing to change with the
times. I am safe.

Female Problems [See: Amenorrhea, Dysmenorrhea, Fibroid Tumors,

Leukorrhea, Menstrual Problems, Vaginitis]: Denial of the
self. Rejecting femininity. Rejection of the feminine principle. I
rejoice in my femaleness. I love being a woman. I love my body.

Fever: Anger. Burning up. I am the cool, calm expression of peace and love.

Fever Blisters [See: Cold Sores, Herpes Simplex]

Fibroid Tumors & Cysts [See: Female Problems]: Nursing a hurt from a
partner. A blow to the feminine ego. I release the pattern in me that
attracted this experience. I create only good in my life.

Fingers: Represent the details of life. I am peaceful with the details of life.
- Thumb:Represents intellect and worry.My mind is at peace.
- Index Finger:Represents ego and fear.I am secure.
- Middle Finger:Represents anger and sexuality.I am comfortable with my sexuality.
- Ring Finger:Represents unions and grief.I am peacefully loving.
- Little Finger:Represents the family and pretending.I am myself with the family of Life.

Fistula: Fear. A blockage in the letting-go process. I am safe. I
trust fully in the process of life. Life is for me.

Flatulence [See: Gas Pains]

Flu [See: Influenza]

Food Poisoning: Allowing others to take control. Feeling
defenseless. I have the strength, power, and skill to digest whatever
comes my way.

Foot Problems: Fear of the future and of not stepping forward in
life. I move forward in life, with joy and with ease.

Fractures [See: Bone Problems]

Frigidity: Fear. Denial of pleasure. A belief that sex is
bad. Insensitive partners. Fear of father. It is safe for me to enjoy
my own body. I rejoice in being a woman.

Fungus: Stagnating beliefs. Refusing to release the past. Letting the
past rule today. I live in the present moment, joyous and free.

Furuncle [See: Boils]

Gallstones (Cholelithiasis): Bitterness. Hard
thoughts. Condemning. Pride. There is joyous release of the past. Life
is sweet, and so am I.

Gangrene: Mental morbidity. Drowning of joy with poisonous thoughts. I
now choose harmonious thoughts and let the joy flow freely through me.

Gas Pains (Flatulence): Gripping. Fear. Undigested ideas. I relax and
let life flow through me with ease.

Gastritis [See: Stomach Problems]: Prolonged uncertainty. A feeling of
doom. I love and approve of myself. I am safe.

Genitals: Represents the masculine and feminine principles. It is safe
to be who I am.

- Problems:Worry about not being good enough.I rejoice in my own
  expression of life.I am perfect just as I am. I love and approve of
  myself.

Gland(s): Represent holding stations. Self-starting activity. I am the
creative power in my world.

Glandular Fever [See: Mononucleosis]

Glandular Problems: Poor distribution of get-up-and-go ideas. Holding
yourself back. I have all the Divine ideas and activity I need. I move
forward right now.

Globus Hystericus [See: Lump in Throat]

Goiter [See: Thyroid]: Hatred for being inflicted
upon. Victim. Feeling thwarted in life. Unfulfilled. I am the power
and authority in my life. I am free to be me.

Gonorrhea [See: Venereal Disease]: A need for punishment for being a
bad person. I love my body. I love my sexuality. I love me.

Gout: The need to dominate. Impatience, anger. I am safe and secure. I
am at peace with myself and with others.

Gray Hair: Stress. A belief in pressure and strain. I am at peace and
comfortable in every area of my life. I am strong and capable.

Growths: Nursing those old hurts. Building resentments. I easily
forgive. I love myself and will reward myself with thoughts of praise.

Gum Problems: Inability to back up decisions. Wishy-washy about
life. I am a decisive person. I follow through and support myself with
love.

Halitosis [See: Bad Breath]: Rotten attitudes, vile gossip, foul
thinking. I speak with gentleness and love. I exhale only the good.

Hands: Hold and handle. Clutch and grip. Grasping and letting
go. Caressing. Pinching. All ways of dealing with experiences. I
choose to handle all my experiences with love and with joy and with
ease.

Hay Fever [See: Allergies]: Emotional congestion. Fear of the
calendar. A belief in persecution. Guilt. I am one with ALL OF LIFE. I
am safe at all times.

Headaches [See: Migraine Headaches]: Invalidating the
self. Self-criticism. Fear. I love and approve of myself. I see myself
and what I do with eyes of love. I am safe.

Heart [See: Blood]: Represents the center of love and security. My
heart beats to the rhythm of love.
- Attack (M.I./Myocardial Infarction) [See: Coronary

Thrombosis]:Squeezing all the joy out of the heart in favor of money
or position, etc.I bring joy back to the center of my heart. I express
love to all.
- Problems:Long-standing emotional problems. Lack of joy. Hardening of
  the heart. Belief in strain and stress.Joy. Joy. Joy. I lovingly
  allow joy to flow through my mind and body and experience.

Heartburn [See: Peptic Ulcer, Stomach Problems, Ulcers]:
Fear. Fear. Fear. Clutching fear. I breathe freely and fully. I am
safe. I trust the process of life.

Hematochezia [See: Anorectal Bleeding]

Hemorrhoids [See: Anus]: Fear of deadlines. Anger of the past. Afraid
to let go. Feeling burdened. I release all that is unlike love. There
is time and space for everything I want to do.

Hepatitis [See: Liver Problems]: Resistance to change. Fear, anger,
hatred. Liver is the seat of anger and rage. My mind is cleansed and
free. I leave the past and move into the new. All is well.

Hernia: Ruptured relationships. Strain, burdens, incorrect creative
expression. My mind is gentle and harmonious. I love and approve of
myself. I am free to be me.

Herpes (Herpes Genitalis) [See: Venereal Disease]: Mass belief in
sexual guilt and the need for punishment. Public shame. Belief in a
punishing God. Rejection of the genitals. My concept of God supports
me. I am normal and natural. I rejoice in my own sexuality and in my
own body. I am wonderful.

Herpes Simplex (Herpes Labialis) [See: Cold Sores]: Burning to
bitch. Bitter words left unspoken. I think and speak only words of
love. I am at peace with life.

Hip(s): Carries the body in perfect balance. Major thrust in moving
forward. Hip Hip Hooray - there is joy in every day. I am balanced and
free.

Hip Problems: Fear of going forward in major decisions. Nothing to
move forward to. I am in perfect balance. I move forward in life with
ease and with joy at every age.

Hirsutism: Anger that is covered over. The blanket used is usually
fear. A desire to blame. There is often an unwillingness to nurture
the self. I am a loving parent to myself. I am covered with love and
approval. It is safe for me to show who I am.

Hives (Urticaria) [See: Rash]: Small, hidden fears. Mountains out of
molehills. I bring peace to every corner of my life.

Hodgkin’s Disease: Blame and a tremendous fear of not being good
enough. A frantic race to prove one’s self until the blood has no
substance left to support itself. The joy of life is forgotten in the
race for acceptance. I am perfectly happy to be me. I am good enough
just as I am. I love and approve of myself. I am joy expressing and
receiving.

Holding Fluids [See: Edema, Swelling]: What are you afraid of losing?
I willingly release with joy.

Huntington’s Disease: Resentment at not being able to change
others. Hopelessness. I release all control to the Universe. I am at
peace with myself and with life.

Hyperactivity: Fear. Feeling pressured and frantic. I am safe. All
pressure dissolves. I AM good enough.

Hyperglycemia [See: Diabetes]

Hyperopia [See: Eye Problems]

Hypertension [See: Blood Problems]

Hyperthyroidism [See: Thyroid]: Rage at being left out. I am at the
center of life, and I approve of myself and all that I see.

Hyperventilation [See: Asphyxiating Attacks, Breathing Problems]:
Fear. Resisting change. Not trusting the process. I am safe everywhere
in the Universe. I love myself and trust the process of life.

Hypoglycemia: Overwhelmed by the burdens in life. “What’s the use?” I
now choose to make my life light and easy and joyful.

Hypothyroidism [See: Thyroid]: Giving up. Feeling hopelessly
stifled. I create a new life with new rules that totally support me.

Ileitis (Crohn’s Disease, Regional Enteritis): Fear. Worry. Not
feeling good enough. I love and approve of myself. I am doing the best
I can. I a wonderful. I am at peace.

Impotence: Sexual pressure, tension, guilt. Social beliefs. Spite
against a previous mate. Fear of mother. I now allow the full power of
my sexual principle to operate with ease and with joy.

Incontinence: Emotional overflow. Years of controlling the emotions I
am willing to feel. It is safe for me to express my emotions. I love
myself.

Incurable: Cannot be cured by outer means at this point. We must go
within to effect the cure. It came from nowhere and will go back to
nowhere. Miracles happen every day. I go within to dissolve the
pattern that created this, and I now accept a Divine healing. And so
it is!

Indigestion: Gut-level fear, dread, anxiety. Griping and grunting. I
digest and assimilate all new experiences peacefully and joyously.

Infection [See: Viral Infection]: Irritation, anger, annoyance. I
choose to be peaceful and harmonious.

Inflammation [See: “Itis”]: Fear. Seeing red. Inflamed thinking. My
thinking is peaceful, calm, and centered.

Influenza [See: Respiratory Ailments]: Response to mass negativity and
beliefs. Fear. Belief in statistics. I am beyond group beliefs or the
calendar. I am free from all congestion and influence.

Ingrown Toenail: Worry and guilt about your right to move forward. It
is my Divine right to take my own direction in life. I am safe. I am
free.

Injuries [See: Cuts, Wounds]: Anger at the self. Feeling guilty. I now
release anger in positive ways. I love and appreciate myself.

Insanity (Psychiatric Illness): Fleeing from the family. Escapism,
withdrawal. Violent separation from life. This mind knows its true
identity and its creative point of Divine Self-Expression.

Insomnia: Fear. Not trusting the process of life. Guilt. I lovingly
release the day and slip into peaceful sleep, knowing tomorrow will
take care of itself.

Intestines [See: Colon]: Assimilation. Absorption. Elimination with
ease. I easily assimilate and absorb all that I need to know and
release the past with joy.

Itching (Pruritis): Desires that go against the
grain. Unsatisfied. Remorse. Itching to get out or get away. I am at
peace just where I am. I accept my good, knowing all my needs and
desires will be fulfilled.

“Itis” [See: Inflammation]: Anger and frustration about conditions you
are looking at in your life. I am willing to change all patterns of
criticism. I love and approve of myself.

Jaundice [See: Liver Problems]: Internal and external
prejudice. Unbalanced reason. I feel tolerance and compassion and love
for all people, myself included.

Jaw Problems (Temporomandibular Joint, TMJ Syndrome):
Anger. Resentment. Desire for revenge. I am willing to change the
patterns in me that created this condition. I love and approve of
myself. I am safe.

Joints [See: Arthritis, Elbow, Knee, Shoulders]: Represent changes in
direction in life and the ease of these movements. I easily flow with
change. My life is Divinely guided, and I am always going in the best
direction.

Keratitis [See: Eye Problems]: Extreme anger. A desire to hit those or
what you see. I allow the love from my own heart to heal all that I
see. I choose peace. All is well in my world.

Kidney Problems: Criticism, disappointment, failure. Shame. Reacting
like a little kid. Divine right action is always taking place in my
life. Only good comes from each experience. It is safe to grow up.

Kidney Stones: Lumps of undissolved anger. I dissolve all past
problems with ease.

Knee [See: Joints]: Represents pride and ego. I am flexible and
flowing.

Knee Problems: Stubborn ego and pride. Inability to
bend. Fear. Inflexibility. Won’t give
in. Forgiveness. Understanding. Compassion. I bend and flow with ease,
and all is well.

Laryngitis: So mad you can’t speak. Fear of speaking up. Resentment of
authority. I am free to ask for what I want. It is safe to express
myself. I am at peace.

Left Side of Body: Represents receptivity, taking in, feminine energy,
women, the mother. My feminine energy is beautifully balanced.

Leg(s): Carry us forward in life. Life is for me.

Leg Problems:
- Lower Fear of the future. Not wanting to move.I move forward with
  confidence and joy, knowing that all is well in my future.

Leprosy: Inability to handle life at all. A long-held belief in not
being good enough or clean enough. I rise above all limitations. I am
Divinely guided and inspired. Love heals all life.

Leukemia [See: Blood Problems]: Brutally killing inspiration. “What’s
the use?” I move beyond past limitations into the freedom of the
now. It is safe to be me.

Leukorrhea [See: Female Problems, Vaginitis]: A belief that women are
powerless over the opposite sex. Anger at a mate. I create all my
experiences. I am the power. I rejoice in my femaleness. I am free.

Liver: Seat of anger and primitive emotions. Love and peace and joy
are what I know. Liver Problems [See: Hepatitis, Jaundice]: Chronic
complaining. Justifying fault-finding to deceive yourself. Feeling
bad. I choose to live through the open space in my heart. I look for
love and find it everywhere.

Lockjaw [See: Tetanus]: Anger. A desire to control. A refusal to
express feelings. I trust the process of life. I easily ask for what I
want. Life supports me.

Lou Gehrig’s Disease [See: Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis]

Lump in Throat (Globus Hystericus): Fear. Not trusting the process of
life. I am safe. I trust that Life is here for me. I express myself
freely and joyously.

Lung: The ability to take in life. I take in life in perfect balance.
- Problems [See: Pneumonia]:Depression. Grief. Fear of taking in
  life. Not feeling worthy of living life fully.I have the capacity to
  take in the fullness of life. I lovingly live life to the fullest.

Lupus (Erythematosus): A giving up. Better to die than stand up for
one’s self. Anger and punishment. I speak up for myself freely and
easily. I claim my own power. I love and approve of myself. I am free
and safe.

Lymph Problems: A warning that the mind needs to be recentered on the
essentials of life. Love and joy.  I am now totally centered in the
love and joy of being alive. I flow with life. Peace of mind is mine.

Malaria: Out of balance with nature and with life. I am united and
balanced with all of life. I am safe.

Mastitis [See: Breast Problems]

Mastoiditis: Anger and frustration. A desire not to hear what is going
on. Usually in children. Fear infecting the understanding. Divine
peace and harmony surround and indwell me. I am an oasis of peace and
love and joy. All is well in my world.

Mellitus [See: Diabetes]

Menopause Problems: Fear of no longer being wanted. Fear of
aging. Self-rejection. Not feeling good enough. I am balanced and
peaceful in all changes of cycles, and I bless my body with love.

Menstrual Problems [See: Amenorrhea, Dysmenorrhea, Female Problems]:
Rejection of one’s femininity. Guilt, fear. Belief that the genitals
are sinful or dirty. I accept my full power as a woman and accept all
my bodily processes as normal and natural. I love and approve of
myself.

Migraine Headaches [See: Headaches]: Dislike of being
driven. Resisting the flow of life. Sexual fears. (Can usually be
relieved by masturbation.) I relax into the flow of life and let life
provide all that I need easily and comfortably. Life is for me.

Miscarriage (Abortion, Spontaneous): Fear. Fear of the future. “Not
now - later.” Inappropriate timing. Divine right action is always
taking place in my life. I love and approve of myself. All is well.

Mono, Mononucleosis (Pfeiffer’s Disease, Glandular Fever): Anger at
not receiving love and appreciation. No longer caring for the self. I
love and appreciate and take care of myself. I am enough.

Motion Sickness [See: Car Sickness, Seasickness]: Fear. Fear of not
being in control. I am always in control of my thoughts. I am safe. I
love and approve of myself.

Mouth: Represents taking in of new ideas and nourishment. I nourish myself with love.
- Problems:Set opinions. Closed mind. Incapacity to take in new
  ideas.I welcome new ideas and new concepts and prepare them for
  digestion and assimilation.

Mucus Colon [See: Colitis, Colon, Intestines, Spastic Colitis]:
Layered deposits of old, confused thoughts clogging the channel of
elimination. Wallowing in the gummed mire of the past. I release and
dissolve the past. I am a clear thinker. I live in the now in peace
and joy.

Multiple Sclerosis: Mental hardness, hard-heartedness, iron will,
inflexibility. Fear. By choosing loving, joyous thoughts, I create a
loving, joyous world. I am safe and free.

Muscles: Resistance to new experiences. Muscles represent our ability
to move in life. I experience life as a joyous dance.

Muscular Dystrophy:“It’s not worth growing up.” I go beyond my
parents’ limitations. I am free to be the best me I can.

Myalgic Encephalomyelitis [See: Epstein-Barr Virus]

Myocardial Infarction [See: Heart Attack]

Myopia [See: Eye Problems]: Fear of the future. Not trusting what is
ahead. I trust the process of life. I am safe.

Nail(s): Represent protection. I reach out safely.

Nail Biting: Frustration. Eating away at the self. Spite of a
parent. It is safe for me to grow up. I now handle my own life with
joy and with ease.

Narcolepsy: Can’t cope. Extreme fear. Wanting to get away from it
all. Not wanting to be here. I rely on Divine wisdom and guidance to
protect me at all times. I am safe.

Nausea: Fear. Rejecting an idea or experience. I am safe. I trust the
process of life to bring only good to me.

Nearsightedness [See: Eye Problems, Myopia]:

Neck (Cervical Spine): Represents flexibility. The ability to see
what’s back there. I am peaceful with life.

Neck Problems: Refusing to see other sides of a
question. Stubbornness, inflexibility. It is with flexibility and ease
that I see all sides of an issue. There are endless ways of doing
things and seeing things. I am safe.

Nephritis [See: Bright’s Disease]: Overreaction to disappointment and
failure. Only right action is taking place in my life. I release the
old and welcome the new. All is well.

Nerves: Represent communication. Receptive reporters. I communicate
with ease and with joy.

Nervous Breakdown: Self-centeredness. Jamming the channels of
communication. I open my heart and create only loving communication. I
am safe. I am well.

Nervousness: Fear, anxiety, struggle, rushing. Not trusting the
process of life. I am on an endless journey through eternity, and
there is plenty of time. I communicate with my heart. All is well.

Neuralgia: Punishment for guilt. Anguish over communication. I forgive
myself. I love and approve of myself. I communicate with love.

Nodules: Resentment and frustration and hurt ego over career. I
release the pattern of delay within me, and I now allow success to be
mine.

Nose: Represents self-recognition. I recognize my own intuitive ability.

- Bleeds:A need for recognition. Feeling unrecognized and
  unnoticed.Crying for love.I love and approve of myself. I recognize
  my own true worth.I am wonderful.

- Runny:Asking for help. Inner crying.I love and comfort myself in
  ways that are pleasing to me.

- Stuffy:Not recognizing the self-worth.I love and appreciate myself.

Numbness (Paresthesia): Withholding love and consideration. Going dead
mentally. I share my feelings and my love. I respond to love in
everyone.

Osteomyelitis [See: Bone Problems]: Anger and frustration at the very
structure of life. Feeling unsupported. I am peaceful with and trust
the process of life. I am safe and secure.

Osteoporosis [See: Bone Problems]: Feeling there is no support left in
life. I stand up for myself, and Life supports me in unexpected,
loving ways.

Ovaries: Represent point of creation. Creativity. I am balanced in my
creative flow.

Overweight [See: Fat]: Fear, need for protection. Running away from
feelings. Insecurity, self-rejection. Seeking fulfillment. I am at
peace with my own feelings. I am safe where I am. I create my own
security. I love and approve of myself.

Paget’s Disease: Feeling there is no longer any foundation to build
on. “Nobody cares.” I know I am supported by Life in grand and
glorious ways. Life loves me and cares for me.

Pain: Guilt. Guilt always seeks punishment. I lovingly release the
past. They are free and I am free. All is well in my heart now.

Palsy [See: Bell’s Palsy, Cerebral Palsy, Parkinson’s Disease]:
Paralyzing thoughts. Getting stuck. I am a free thinker, and I have
wonderful experiences with ease and with joy.

Pancreas: Represents the sweetness of life. My life is sweet.

Pancreatitis: Rejection. Anger and frustration because life seems to
have lost its sweetness.  I love and approve of myself, and I alone
create sweetness and joy in my life.

Paralysis [See: Palsy]: Fear. Terror. Escaping a situation or
person. Resistance. I am one with all of life. I am totally adequate
for all situations.

Parasites: Giving power to others, letting them take over. I lovingly
take back my power and eliminate all interference.

Paresthesia [See: Numbness]

Parkinson’s Disease [See: Palsy]: Fear and an intense desire to
control everything and everyone. I relax knowing that I am safe. Life
is for me, and I trust the process of life.

Peptic Ulcer [See: Heartburn, Stomach Problems, Ulcers]: Fear. A
belief that you are not good enough. Anxious to please. I love and
approve of myself. I am at peace with myself. I am wonderful.

Periodontitis [See: Pyorrhea]

Petit Mal [See: Epilepsy]

Pfeiffer’s Disease [See: Mononucleosis]

Phlebitis: Anger and frustration. Blaming others for the limitation
and lack of joy in life. Joy now flows freely within me, and I am at
peace with life.

Piles [See: Hemorrhoids]

Pimples [See: Blackheads, Whiteheads]: Small outbursts of anger. I
calm my thoughts, and I am serene.

Pink Eye [See: Conjunctivitis]: Anger and frustration. Not wanting to
see. I release the need to be right. I am at peace. I love and approve
of myself.

Pituitary Gland: Represents the control center. My mind and body are
in perfect balance. I control my thoughts.

Plantar Wart: Anger at the very basis of your understanding. Spreading
frustration about the future. I move forward with confidence and
ease. I trust and flow with the process of life.

Pneumonia [See: Lung Problems]: Desperate. Tired of life. Emotional
wounds that are not allowed to heal. I freely take in Divine ideas
that are filled with the breath and the intelligence of Life. This is
a new moment.

Poison Ivy: Feeling defenseless and open to attack. I am powerful,
safe, and secure. All is well.

Poison Oak [See: Poison Ivy]

Polio: Paralyzing jealousy. A desire to stop someone. There is enough
for everyone. I create my good and my freedom with loving thoughts.

Post-Nasal Drip: Inner crying. Childish tears. Victim. I acknowledge
and accept that I am the creative power in my world. I now choose to
enjoy my life.

Premenstrual Syndrome (PMS): Allowing confusion to reign. Giving power
to outside influences. Rejection of the feminine processes. I now take
charge of my mind and my life. I am a powerful, dynamic woman! Every
part of my body functions perfectly. I love me.

Prostate: Represents the masculine principle. I accept and rejoice in my masculinity.

Prostate Problems: Mental fears weaken the masculinity. Giving
up. Sexual pressure and guilt. Belief in aging. I love and approve of
myself. I accept my own power. I am forever young in spirit.

Pruritis [See: Itching]

Pruritis Ani [See: Anus]

Psoriasis [See: Skin Problems]: Fear of being hurt. Deadening the
senses of the self. Refusing to accept responsibility for our own
feelings. I am alive to the joys of living. I deserve and accept the
very best in life. I love and approve of myself.

Psychiatric Illness [See: Insanity]

Pubic Bone: Represents genital protection. My sexuality is safe.

Pyelonephritis [See: Urinary Infections]

Pyorrhea (Periodontitis): Anger at the inability to make
decisions. Wishy-washy people. I approve of myself, and my decisions
are always perfect for me.

Quinsy (Peritonsillar Abscess) [See: Sore Throat, Tonsillitis]: A
strong belief that you cannot speak up for yourself and ask for your
needs. It is my birthright to have my needs met. I now ask for what I
want with love and with ease.

Rabies: Anger. A belief that violence is the answer. I am surrounded
and indwelled with peace.

Rash [See: Hives]: Irritation over delays. Babyish way to get
attention. I love and approve of myself. I am at peace with the
process of life.

Rectum [See: Anus]

Respiratory Ailments [See: Bronchitis, Colds, Coughs, Influenza]: Fear
of taking in life fully. I am safe. I love my life.

Rheumatism: Feeling victimized. Lack of love. Chronic
bitterness. Resentment. I create my own experiences. As I love and
approve of myself and others, my experiences get better and better.

Rheumatoid Arthritis: Deep criticism of authority. Feeling very put
upon. I am my own authority. I love and approve of myself. Life is
good.

Rickets: Emotional malnutrition. Lack of love and security. I am
secure and am nourished by the love of the Universe itself.

Right Side of Body: Giving out, letting go, masculine energy, men, the
father. I balance my masculine energy easily and effortlessly.

Ringworm: Allowing others to get under your skin. Not feeling good
enough or clean enough. I love and approve of myself. No person,
place, or thing has any power over me. I am free.

Root Canal [See: Teeth]: Can’t bite into anything anymore. Root
beliefs being destroyed. I create firm foundations for myself and for
my life. I choose my beliefs to support me joyously.

Round Shoulders [See: Shoulders, Spinal Curvature]: Carrying the
burdens of life. Helpless and hopeless. I stand tall and free. I love
and approve of me. My life gets better every day.

Sagging Lines: Sagging lines on the face come from sagging thoughts in
the mind. Resentment of life. I express the joy of living and allow
myself to enjoy every moment of every day totally. I become young
again.

Scabies: Infected thinking. Allowing others to get under your skin. I
am the living, loving, joyous expression of life. I am my own person.

Sciatica: Being hypocritical. Fear of money and of the future. I move
into my greater good. My good is everywhere, and I am secure and safe.

Scleroderma: Protecting the self from life. Not trusting yourself to
be there and to take care of yourself. I relax completely for I now
know I am safe. I trust Life and I trust myself.

Scoliosis [See: Round Shoulders, Spinal Curvature]

Scratches: Feeling life tears at you, that life is a ripoff. That you
are being ripped off. I am grateful for life’s generosity to me. I am
blessed.

Seasickness [See: Motion Sickness]: Fear. Fear of death. Lack of
control. I am totally safe in the Universe. I am at peace
everywhere. I trust Life.

Seizures: Running away from the family, from the self, or from life. I
am at home in the Universe. I am safe and secure and understood.

Senility [See: Alzheimer’s Disease]: Returning to the so-called safety
of childhood. Demanding care and attention. A form of control of those
around you. Escapism.Divine protection. Safety. Peace. The
Intelligence of the Universe operates at every level of life.

Shin(s): Breaking down ideals. Shins represent the standards of
life. I live up to my highest standards with love and with joy.

Shingles (Varicella): Waiting for the other shoe to drop. Fear and
tension. Too sensitive. I am relaxed and peaceful because I trust the
process of life. All is well in my world.

Shoulders [See: Joints, Round Shoulders]: Represent our ability to
carry out experiences in life joyously. We make life a burden by our
attitude. I choose to allow all my experiences to be joyous and
loving.

Sickle Cell Anemia: A belief that one is not good enough, which
destroys the very joy of life. This child lives and breathes the joy
of life and is nourished by love. God works miracles every day.

Sinus Problems (Sinusitis): Irritation to one person, someone close. I
declare peace and harmony indwell me and surround me at all times. All
is well.

Skeleton [See: Bones]: Crumbling of structure. Bones represent the
structure of your life. I am strong and sound. I am well structured.

Skin: Protects our individuality. A sense organ. I feel safe to be me.

Skin Problems [See: Hives, Psoriasis, Rash]: Anxiety, fear. Old,
buried guck. I am being threatened. I lovingly protect myself with
thoughts of joy and peace. The past is forgiven and forgotten. I am
free in this moment.

Slipped Disc: Feeling totally unsupported by Life. Indecisive. Life
supports all of my thoughts; therefore, I love and approve of myself
and all is well.

Snoring: Stubborn refusal to let go of old patterns. I release all
that is unlike love and joy in my mind. I move from the past into the
new and fresh and vital.

Solar Plexus: Gut reactions. Center of our intuitive power. I trust my
inner voice. I am strong, wise, and powerful. Sore Throat [See:
Quinsy, Throat,Tonsillitis]: Holding in angry words. Feeling unable to
express the self. I release all restrictions, and I am free to be me.

Sores: Unexpressed anger that settles in. I express my emotions in
joyous, positive ways.

Spasms: Tightening our thoughts through fear. I release, I relax, and
I let go. I am safe in life.

Spastic Colitis [See: Colitis, Colon, Intestines, Mucus Colon]: Fear
of letting go. Insecurity. It is safe for me to live. Life will always
provide for me. All is well.

Spinal Curvature (Scoliosis Kyphosis) [See: Round Shoulders]: The
inability to flow with the support of Life. Fear and trying to hold on
to old ideas. Not trusting life. Lack of integrity. No courage of
conviction. I release all fears. I now trust the process of life. I
know that life is for me. I stand straight and tall with love.

Spinal Meningitis: Inflamed thinking and rage at life. I release all
blame and accept the peacefulness and joy of life.

Spine: Flexible support of life. I am supported by Life.

Spleen: Obsessions. Being obsessed about things. I love and approve of
myself. I trust the process of life to be there for me. I am safe. All
is well.

Sprains: Anger and resistance. Not wanting to move in a certain
direction in life. I trust the process of life to take me only to my
highest good. I am at peace.

Sterility: Fear and resistance to the process of life, OR not needing
to go through the parenting experience. I trust in the process of
life. I am always in the right place, doing the right thing, at the
right time. I love and approve of myself.

Stiff Neck [See: Neck Problems]: Unbending bullheadedness. It is safe
to see other viewpoints.

Stiffness: Rigid, stiff thinking. I am safe enough to be flexible in my mind.

Stomach: Holds nourishment. Digests ideas. I digest life with
ease. Stomach Problems [See: Gastritis, Heartburn, Peptic Ulcer,
Ulcers]: Dread. Fear of the new. Inability to assimilate the new. Life
agrees with me. I assimilate the new every moment of every day. All is
well.

Stroke (Cerebrovascular Accident/CVA): Giving up. Resistance. “Rather
die than change.” Rejection of life. Life is change, and I adapt
easily to the new. I accept life - past, present, and future.

Stuttering: Insecurity. Lack of self-expression. Not being allowed to
cry. I am free to speak up for myself. I am now secure in my own
expression. I communicate only with love.

Sty [See: Eye Problems]: Looking at life through angry eyes. Angry at
someone. I choose to see everyone and everything with joy and love.

Suicide: See life only in black and white. Refusal to see another way
out. I live in the totality of possibilities. There is always another
way. I am safe.

Swelling [See: Edema, Holding Fluids]: Being stuck in
thinking. Clogged, painful ideas. My thoughts flow freely and
easily. I move through ideas with ease.

Syphilis [See: Venereal Disease]: Giving away your power and
effectiveness. I decide to be me. I approve of myself as I am.

Tapeworm: Strong belief in being a victim and unclean. Helpless to the
seeming attitudes of others. Others only reflect the good feelings I
have about myself. I love and approve of all that I am.

Teeth: Represent decisions.
- Problems [See: Root Canal]:Long-standing indecisiveness. Inability
  to break down ideas for analysis and decisions.I make my decisions
  based on the principles of truth, and I rest securely knowing that
  only right action is taking place in my life.

Temporomandibular Joint [See: Jaw Problems]

Testicles: Masculine principles. Masculinity. It is safe to be a man.

Tetanus [See: Lockjaw]: A need to release angry, festering thoughts. I
allow the love from my own heart to wash through me and cleanse and
heal every part of my body and my emotions.

Throat: Avenue of expression. Channel of creativity. I open my heart
and sing the joys of love.
- Problems [See: Sore Throat]: The inability to speak up for one’s
  self. Swallowed anger. Stifled creativity. Refusal to change. It’s
  okay to make noise. I express myself freely and joyously. I speak up
  for myself with ease. I express my creativity. I am willing to
  change.

Thrush [See: Candida, Mouth, Yeast Infections]: Anger over making the
wrong decisions. I lovingly accept my decisions, knowing I am free to
change. I am safe.

Thymus: Master gland of the immune system. Feeling attacked by
Life. They are out to get me. My loving thoughts keep my immune system
strong. I am safe inside and out. I hear myself with love.

Thyroid [See: Goiter, Hyperthyroidism, Hypothyroidism]:
Humiliation. “I never get to do what I want to do. When is it going to
be my turn?” I move beyond old limitations and now allow myself to
express freely and creatively.

Tics, Twitches: Fear. A feeling of being watched by others. I am
approved of by all of Life. All is well. I am safe.

Tinnitus: Refusal to listen. Not hearing the inner
voice. Stubbornness. I trust my Higher Self. I listen with love to my
inner voice. I release all that is unlike the action of love.

Toes: Represent the minor details of the future. All details take care
of themselves.

Tongue: Represents the ability to taste the pleasures of life with
joy. I rejoice in all of my life’s bountiful givingness.

Tonsillitis [See: Quinsy, Sore Throat]: Fear. Repressed
emotions. Stifled creativity. My good now flows freely. Divine ideas
express through me. I am at peace.

Tuberculosis: Wasting away from selfishness. Possessive. Cruel
thoughts. Revenge. As I love and approve of myself, I create a joyful,
peaceful world to live in.

Tumors: Nursing old hurts and shocks. Building remorse. I lovingly
release the past and turn my attention to this new day. All is well.

Ulcers [See: Heartburn, Peptic Ulcer, Stomach Problems]: Fear. A
strong belief that you are not good enough. What is eating away at
you? I love and approve of myself. I am at peace. I am calm. All is
well.

Urethritis: Angry, emotions. Being pissed off. Blame. I only create
joyful experiences in my life.

Urinary Infections (Cystitis, Pyelonephritis): Pissed off. Usually at
the opposite sex or a lover. Blaming others. I release the pattern in
my consciousness that created this condition. I am willing to
change. I love and approve of myself.

Urticaria [See: Hives]

Uterus: Represents the home of creativity. I am at home in my body.

Vaginitis [See: Female Problems, Leukorrhea]: Anger at a mate. Sexual
guilt. Punishing the self. Others mirror the love and self-approval I
have for myself. I rejoice in my sexuality.

Varicella [See: Shingles]

Varicose Veins: Standing in a situation you
hate. Discouragement. Feeling overworked and overburdened. I stand in
truth and live and move in joy. I love Life, and circulate freely.

Vasovagal Attack [See: Fainting]

Venereal Disease [See: AIDS, Gonorrhea, Herpes, Syphilis]: Sexual
guilt. Need for punishment. Belief that the genitals are sinful or
dirty. Abusing another. I lovingly and joyously accept my sexuality
and its expression. I accept only thoughts that support me and make me
feel good.

Vertigo [See: Dizziness]

Viral Infections [See: Infection]: Lack of joy flowing through
life. Bitterness. I lovingly allow joy to flow freely in my life. I
love me.

Vitiligo: Feeling completely outside of things. Not belonging. Not one
of the group. I am at the very center of Life, and I am totally
connected in Love.

Vomiting: Violent rejection of ideas. Fear of the new. I digest life
safely and joyously. Only good comes to me and through me.

Vulva: Represents vulnerability. It is safe to be vulnerable.

Warts: Little expressions of hate. Belief in ugliness. I am the love
and the beauty of Life in full expression.

Weakness: A need for mental rest. I give my mind a joyous vacation.

Whiteheads [See: Pimples]: Hiding ugliness. I accept myself as beautiful and loved.

Wisdom Tooth, Impacted: Not giving yourself mental space to create a
firm foundation. I open my consciousness to the expansion of
life. There is plenty of space for me to grow and to change.

Wounds [See: Cuts, Injuries]: Anger and guilt at the self. I forgive
myself, and I choose to love myself.

Wrist: Represents movement and ease. I handle all my experiences with
wisdom, with love, and with ease.

Yeast Infections [See: Candida, Thrush]: Denying your own needs. Not
supporting yourself. I now choose to support myself in loving, joyous
ways.
