
In his book Eat Right 4 Your Type, Dr. D'Adamo first introduced
readers to the concept of Secretors/Non-secretors. By now you are
familiar with the concept that your ABO blood type is controlled by
your genetics. The gene coding for your blood type lies on chromosome
9q34. However, a separate gene (called FUT2) actually interacts with
your blood type gene, and determine your ability to secrete your blood
type antigens into body fluids and tissues.

In the genetics of the secretor system two options exist. A person can
be either a Secretor or a Non-secretor. This is completely independent
of whether you are a blood type A, B, AB, or O. This means that
someone can be an A Secretor or an A Non-secretor, a B Secretor or a B
Non-secretor etc.

A Secretor is defined as a person who secretes their blood type
antigens into body fluids and secretions like the saliva in your
mouth, the mucus in your digestive tract and respiratory cavities,
etc. Basically what this means is that a secretor puts their blood
type into these body fluids. A Non-secretor on the other hand puts
little to none of their blood type into these same fluids. As a
general rule, in the U.S. about 20% of the population are
Non-secretors (with the remaining 80% being Secretors).

Advantages and Disadvantages: 

With respect to the ABO blood types, it is very difficult to state
that one type is more advantageous than another. Each blood type has
its own strengths and characteristic weaknesses. However, this does
not appear to be the case with the Secretor gene. As a generality,
being a Non-secretor (based on all of the available information) does
actually appear to be a potential health disadvantage. At a very basic
level, being able to secrete blood type into your saliva, mucus,
etc. allows for an added degree of protection against the environment,
particularly with respect to microorganisms and lectins.

An additional advantage of being a Secretor might be a generalized
tendency to promote a stabilized, blood-type friendly intestinal
bacterial ecosystem. Many of the friendly (probiotic) bacteria in your
digestive system actually use your blood type as one of their
preferential foods. Since Secretors have a steady supply of blood type
in the mucus that lines the digestive tract; their bacteria have a
much more constant food supply.

Metabolic Differences Between Secretors and Non-Secretors 

Similar to the ABO blood types, it appears additional genetic
information must be linked to the Secretor gene, because predictable
trends in non-blood type aspects of physiology have a close
association with Secretor/Non-secretor status. Aspects of physiology
such as the relative activity of an enzyme called intestinal alkaline
phosphatase; propensities toward clotting, reliability of some tumor
markers, and generalized performance of your immune system have
predictable trends depending upon your Secretor status.

The activity of intestinal and serum alkaline phosphatase is strongly
correlated with secretor phenotypes. Basically, Non-secretors,
independent of their ABO blood groups (as you might remember type O's
have the highest alkaline phosphatase activity and type A's the
least), have lower alkaline phosphatase activity. It has been
estimated that the serum alkaline phosphatase activity of
Non-secretors is only about 20% of the active in the secretor groups.

As was mentioned in Eat Right 4 Your Type, blood type impacts the
clotting ability to a significant degree. In fact, it has been
estimated that a significant fraction (30%) of the genetically
determined variance in plasma concentration of the von Willebrand
factor (vWf) clotting factor is directly related to ABO blood type. As
a rule, it is blood group O individuals who have the lowest amount of
this clotting factor.

Secretors have the slowest clotting while Non-secretors have shorter
bleeding times and a tendency towards higher levels of the clotting
factor VIII and vWf. ABO and Secretor genetics actually further
interact to influence blood viscosity. In essence what this means is
that an A Non-secretor will be at the far end of the spectrum with the
slowest bleeding times, thickest blood viscosity, and the most
probability to have high platelet aggregation. On the other end on the
continuum will be O Secretors, who will have the longest bleeding
time, thinnest blood, and least tendency for platelet
aggregation. Because of this, Non-secretors (especially the type A's)
tend to be at the highest risk for future atherothrombotic and heart
disease.

Disease Susceptibility among Secretors and Non-secretors: 

Digestive System 

As a general rule, a higher intensity of oral disease is found among
Non-secretors. This includes dysplasia (precancerous changes to the
tissue) and an increase in cavities. Statistically speaking, blood
type A Secretors have the lowest number of cavities.

Non-secretors also tend to have more digestive problems. Several
studies have indicated that Non-secretors have a significantly higher
rate of duodenal and peptic ulcers. Non-secretors are also less
resistant to infection by Helicobacter pylori (a microbe associated
with ulcers). It appears that this organism can colonize more readily
and generate more inflammation in individual's incapable of secreting
their blood type into the digestive tract.

Non-secretors are at an increased risk for development of celiac
disease (up to 48% of patients with celiac disease have been reported
to be Non-secretors).

Respiratory System 

With regards to aspects of lung function, being a Non-secretor takes its usual place as a health disadvantage. Several researchers have suggested that being a Non-secretor might predispose an individual to damaging effects, while being a secretor might add a degree of protection against harmful environmental assaults to our lungs.

Among coal miners, asthma was significantly related to Non-secretor
phenotype. Secretors also appear to receive a degree of protection
against some of the deleterious effects of cigarette smoking. Evidence
suggests that the ability to secrete ABO blood type antigens might
decrease the risk of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD).

Being a Non-secretor also offers a slight increase risk for having a
problem with habitual snoring.

Autoimmune Disease 

Non-secretors appear to have an increase in the prevalence of a
variety of autoimmune diseases including ankylosing spondylitis,
reactive arthritis, psoriatic arthropathy, Sjogren's syndrome,
multiple schlerosis, and Grave's disease.

Diabetes, Heart Disease, & Metabolic Syndrome X 

Non-secretors are at a greater risk of developing diabetes (especially
adult onset diabetes); and they might be at a greater risk of
developing complications from diabetes. Data allows the conclusion
that Non-secretors are a risk factor for myocardial infarction and
heart disease (note: this is particularly true for men).

Several different researchers have noted a connection between a
metabolic syndrome called "Syndrome X" and Non-secretor blood
types. Syndrome X is a clustering of metabolic problems comprised of
insulin resistance (your cells do not respond effectively to the
insulin that you create), elevated plasma glucose (high blood sugar),
lipid regulation problems (elevated triglycerides, increased small
low-density lipoproteins, and decreased high-density lipoproteins),
high blood pressure, a prothrombic state (tendency to clotting), and
obesity (especially central obesity or a predisposition to gaining
weight in the abdomen). This cluster of metabolic disorders seem to
interact to promote the development of diabetes (adult onset type II),
atherosclerosis, and cardiovascular disease. And while insulin
resistance might lie at the heart of the problem, all of these
metabolic disorders appear to contribute to health problems.

Alcoholism 

Alcoholism has been associated with the Non-secretor blood type. On
the positive side, alcohol consumption appears to exert a protective
effect on lung function and to lower the risk of heart disease more in
Non-secretors than in Secretors. The key principle with the use of
alcohol is for Non-secretors (and everybody actually) is moderation.

Bacteria Urinary Tract Infections 

Non-secretors are at a greater risk for recurrent UTI's, have a
greater tendency to increased inflammation, and are much more likely
to develop renal scars. Being a blood type Secretor on the other hand
offers a degree of protection; cutting your risk of recurrent UTI's by
greater than 50% and dramatically decreasing the likelihood you will
have renal scars develop.

Candida infection 

Based upon this tendency of Non-secretor saliva to not only fail to
prevent attachment of Candida., but maybe actually promote the binding
of Candida to your tissue, we would expect that research would show
higher tendency to Candida problems among Non-secretors. This is what
we find to be true. Non-secretors are much more likely to be carriers
of Candida and to have problems with persistent infections. Blood type
O Non-secretors might be the most affected of the Non-secretor blood
types, since Candida also appears to have an easier time colonizing
(attaching to) the blood type O antigen.

Antibody levels

Secretors are known to have higher levels of IgG and IgA
antibodies. The lack of IgA antibodies perhaps explains the link
between non-secretor status and an increased frequency of heart valve
problems secondary to bacteria infection. Because IgA functions much
like the way a rampart or palisade wall protects a town from invasion,
most if not all non-secretors have problems with gut permiability
("leaky gut").

Determining Your Secretor Status 

I hope you can begin to appreciate that having information about your
Secretor/Non-secretor status might be a valuable piece of health
information. While, unfortunately, the news for Non-secretors is not
as positive, it is better to have information. With information comes
knowledge. And with knowledge, comes the ability to intervene.

Dr. D'Adamo has done blood testing for Secretor/Non-secretor status
for years. Now, through an arrangement he has made with a lab, you can
order a genomic test kit to determine your Secretor/Non-secretor
status. The test will need to be returned to the lab for results to be
obtained. .

Look for further information on Secretor/Non-secretor blood type
connection in his book Live Right 4 Your Type. In addition to allowing
important diet refinements, knowing your secretor status can help you
use nutritional supplements more effectively and intelligently while
adding to your awareness of illness and metabolic dysfunction you may
be prone to because of your secretor genetics.

Previously, secretor status could only be determined by select labs
using sophisticated forensic techniques. Now North American Pharmacal
has made available this important test directly available to the
general public using a simple saliva sample to perform the
determination.

