19/10

10: Creativity and Confidence With Inner Gifts

9: Integrity and Wisdom

1: Creativity and Confidence

Understanding Life Purpose

Those on the 19/10 life path are here to work through issues of
creative energy and integrity, learning to channel their magnetic
energy, intuitive wisdom, and inner gifts into positive forms of
creativity as they guide or inspire others by their example. However,
since what we're here to do isn't usually what comes easiest, before
19/10s can fulfill their life purpose, they have to overcome hurdles
and negative tendencies in a number of areas. These individuals are
prone to extreme insecurity, addictions, and physical maladies due to
blocked energy. Until they find their confidence and overcome
hypersensitivity, they also demonstrate a false bravado and often
appear angry when actually they feel defensive or hurt. Until they
find the wisdom to live in accord with higher principles of integrity,
19/10s learn life lessons as a gymnast often learns balance—by taking
some hard falls.

Using the method outlined in this book for determining birth numbers,
we do not add together the final two digits of four-digit birth
numbers. However, if we did add them together (1 + 0), we would end up
with a 19/10/1—indicating triple creativity (1) intensified by the
inner gifts of sensitivity, strength, expressiveness, and acute
intuition (0).

The forms of creative service 19/10s provide may range from intuitive
healing work to making handmade greeting cards for friends. The
creative endeavors of famous 19/1 Os range from the cartooning genius
of Walt Disney to the whimsical rhymes of Dr. Seuss. Florence
Nightingale became a healer, Jim Croce a performing artist, Jacques
Cousteau a marine explorer, and Mikhail Gorbachev an inspiring world
leader. The magnetic energy, natural charisma, and inner gifts of
19/10s converge to create almost unparalleled ability to inspire
others. The more 19/10s allow their creative energy to flow, the
better they feel.

Due to innate insecurity, 19/10s are highly sensitive to the opinions
of others, which they either rely upon or resist. At the same time,
because 19/10s have an unsure sense of identity, they often identify
with their own opinions and tend to impose them on others. The Law of
Intuition (p. 385) helps 19/10s feel secure with their own feelings
and find the beautiful heart beneath the bluster and hear other
people's opinions without feeling threatened or defensive-and without
imposing their own will or ideas on others.

To overcome their innate hypersensitivity and insecurity, 19/10s need
to acknowledge these traits, accept them, and find the confidence to
push through them, as stated in the Law of Action (p. 390).

Like all those working 1,19/10s can choose to channel their creative
energy in constructive or destructive ways. They need to remember that
they have the power of choice as stated in the Law of Choices (p. 328)
and that every choice has consequences.

As 19/10s recognize and open to their acute sensitivity, guided by
intuitive gifts, they discover that they can tune in to other
people. Their resource of strength gives them the fortitude to
persevere through hardships.

Whether or not 19/10s choose to practice a form of creative healing,
such as massage, psychotherapy, painting pictures, or telling stories,
they can, by their very presence, become a natural force of healing
and inspiration when acting with integrity and working their energy in
expansive ways.

Once they reconnect with the line of light and energy that is their
birthright, and find the courage to live the life they came here to
live, the energy surges and they come alive in ways they hadn't
experienced before.

Working 19/10 in the Positive

These individuals have a magnetic personality that attracts
others. They use their intuitive wisdom in counseling, healing,
problem solving, or other forms of creative endeavor. Having made
peace with themselves, they offer guidance by example rather than
dogmatic opinions, and they respect others' opinions without being
dependent on them. They have found the confidence to reveal their
sensitive natures, resulting in fulfilling relationships. These
individuals enjoy regular exercise as a means of balancing their
energies, and they have avoided or overcome destructive
addictions. They energize, influence, and inspire those around them.

Working 19/10 in the Negative

When the energies of 19/10s are bound or held in, they create physical
discomfort, tension, and pent-up, exp10sive anger, as well as problems
with tobacco, alcohol, other drugs, or food. Rigidly opinionated,
these individuals zealously identify with causes, beliefs, or
phi10sophies. Such 19/10s are usually unmarried, divorced, or just
difficult to live with. They alternate between acting shy and bossy,
opinionated and insecure. When inhibited, they repress sexual energy;
when frustrated, they exploit or abuse sexuality. Their dogmatic
opinions reflect their underlying insecurity.

Life-Path Issues

Health

The very large and sensitive energy field of 19/10s often generates an
unusual physical appearance in the body, eyes, or face, with unusual
physical issues. Individuals working 19/10 don't usually require as
much sleep as most other people, especially when they are feeling
excited or inspired. In order to serve others, 19/10s need to live a
balanced life, keeping everything in moderation, and taking their
sensitive nature into account.

If energy blockages occur, 19/10s may have difficulties with their
prostate or ovaries, lower back, or heart. Illnesses affect the
reproductive area and lower back and result in constipation,
psychosomatic problems, or a tendency toward addictions. The energy
field of 19/10s is so sensitive that they don't tolerate drugs or
alcohol well at all; they tend to crave and then abuse them, so they
do well to avoid them altogether. When ill, most 19/10s respond better
to energetic methods of healing, such as massage, hypnosis, and
visualization, than to standard prescription drugs. Even
acupuncturists must use special care, given the highly sensitive
energy field of 19/10s.

A healthful, grounding diet works best for 19/10s. Even those who
generally follow a vegetarian diet may need to include a little fish
or poultry on occasion.

All 19/10s thrive on a balanced, moderate exercise program, including
walking, stretching, or light calisthenics, which serve to release
energy blocks and general negativity, such as pent-up frustration or
anger, so that they don't discharge energy in self-destructive ways.

Many 19/10s display a kind of exceptional luck or special protection, like the proverbial cat with nine lives.

Relationships

Those working 19/10 sometimes feel cut off from others to the degree
that they live "alone," up in their head. All 19/10s need to pay
attention to balancing their mind with their heart; in other words,
they only feel their heart when they move out of their head.

Anger is a major issue for 19/1 Os. Alternately repressed or
exp10sive, timid or bossy, they can act charming with strangers and
abusive with family or friends. They can also act self-abusive when
they are angry at themselves, reflecting frustrated energies that hide
the love that wants to shine through.

This life path doesn't really center around relationships, which can
challenge both 19/10s and those who live with them. They can have good
relationships, but intimacy doesn't come easily. Their anger at
intimates, whether suppressed or expressed, comes when they feel hurt
or bossed around. They have to confront and clear a tendency toward
shyness or shame before intimacy and openness can b10ssom. But 19/10s,
like anyone else, can change, and when they trust and feel the love in
their hearts, sexual relationships become a form of healing for all
involved.

Talents, Work, and Finances

Those working 19/10 have a very strong call to service—to expressing
their creative spirit through a variety of endeavors. Due to their
inner gifts of sensitivity, strength, expressiveness, and intuition,
plus the magnetic energy surrounding them, 19/10s have an indefinable
charm and charisma. When they feel confident, they can manifest
uncanny insight and practical wisdom. This life path is one of the
most naturally intuitive. Although they are by no means limited to
such fields, the intense and unique qualities of 19/10s make for
intrinsic talents in any form of creativity, intuitive work or
healing, community leadership, counseling, or service. They are born
healers.

Many forms of healing exist, however, ranging from counseling friends
or doing massage to practicing as a licensed professional. Even those
19/10s in fields unrelated to healing can become a healing influence
due to their magnetic energy; this healing doesn't necessarily have to
manifest in dramatic ways.

Many 19/1 Os express their creative energy by drawing on greeting
cards, writing poems for friends or relatives, or other forms of
creative expression. They're so inventive that, given the space to
create, 19/10s come up with their own unique ways to serve and
inspire.

With practice, 19/10s can become gifted, creative writers, musicians,
actors, gardeners, directors, or other creative artists. They do
wondrous energetic bodywork, with intense energy working through their
hands. Whether or not they choose healing or creative arts, 19/10s can
manage people, lead, or serve.

Many 19/10s shy away from healing out of fear of misusing their gifts
or out of insecurity. When they learn to apply their gifts in service
of others, for the highest good of all concerned, their lives b10ssom.

Their level of financial success reflects the degree to which they
have overcome insecurity and learned to trust their intuitive gifts.
