20/2

2: Cooperation and Balance

20: Cooperation and Balance With Inner Gifts

Understanding Life Purpose

Those on the 20/2 life path are here to use their inner gifts in a
spirit of service and to establish healthy boundaries and balanced
responsibility in order to achieve joyful cooperation and mutual
support. From this point of balance, 20/2s can cooperatively serve the
common good out oflove and caring rather than codependence. Not all
codependents work 20/2, of course, nor do all 20/2s behave like
codependents, but until they find a balance point, 20/2s tend to feel
overly responsible and overhelp, then feel resentful and withdraw
emotionally.

Because 20/2s feel so responsible and on some level blame themselves,
even for other people's problems, they quickly find fault with others
as a defensive maneuver, as if to say, "It's not my fault!" All 20/2s
need to take full responsibility for their own life but not feel
responsible for the lives of others, except, of course, in appropriate
situations, such as caring for children.

Most 20/2s need to define clearly the difference between service and
servitude. In the larger sense, 20/2s can develop the ability to
cooperate with life itself, rather than resisting the situations or
circumstances they meet.

In their life and relationships, 20/2s start out doing too much; then
the pendulum inevitably swings the other way, and they freeze up,
resist, or withdraw. They're here to find their comfort zone and
define their limits—choosing to do what they feel good about, and,
when they don't feel good, knowing when to say, "Enough," before they
have to say, "I'm fed up." As 20/2s get in touch with what they feel
rather than what they or others think they should feel, they can truly
support, and also feel supported by, others.

Those working 20/2, 22/4, and 40/4 have many resonant issues, such as
the need to apply a step-by-step approach to problem solving. Although
20/2s thrive in support positions, they can certainly become leaders
or artists in any field. Usually they feel most satisfied if they are
supporting others who work toward larger causes.

Similar to 4s, 20/2s have minds that tend to run in circles when they
are making decisions—weighing all the variables, comparing every
benefit and liability—in order to feel they are doing what they
"should." Most 20/2s are also concerned about stability and keeping
everything under control; disorder feels like chaos to them and may
bring up childhood fears.

The greatest challenge for most 20/2s is finding their own internal
harmony. They thrive when they give their analytical mind some time
off and let other people solve their own problems. When 20/2s contact
their internal sense of harmony and set their own boundaries, they
serve as a standard of balance by which others can set their own
internal mechanisms.

Along with innate strength and surprising sturdiness whatever their
body type, 20/2s can apply their inner gifts of sensitivity, strength,
expression, and intuition (or refined intuition) to their work in the
world.

With their extra sensitivity, 20/2s need to remember that if others
get themselves stuck in dark or difficult places, they can offer their
support if they feel moved to do so, but they are not responsible for
others' predicaments. They do not need to get others out of the holes
they've gotten themselves into. Sometimes people need to stay in a
dark place for a while until they learn what they need to
learn. "Saving" people before they are ready to be saved may not truly
help them. It's not for us to decide what others should do any more
than others should decide what is appropriate for us. Those working
20/2 do best to serve from a centered place of compassionate
detachment.

Working 20/2 in the Positive

These individuals balance strength and flexibility, home and work,
time for others and time for self. Their bodies stay relaxed and
supple, reflecting their internal equanimity, because they worry less
and intuit more. Consummate problem solvers and mediators in family or
business, they help others to reach agreement, just as they have
reached internal harmony and integration within themselves. Using both
their strength and sensitivity in support of others, they feel useful
and appredated; they support and appreciate themselves, as well,
honoring their boundaries, feelings, and limits.

Working 20/2 in the Negative

No one ever knows what these individuals want, not even themselves;
they're too preoccupied doing what they think they are supposed to do,
and they are quick to expect that others should do the
same. Chronically codependent, they feel responsible for almost
everything, keeping the moon and stars in place while meeting
everyone's needs. Other people's whims become their demands. They
"sacrifice for others" and then resent it; they tend to give too much,
then resist or withdraw completely. Physically, mentally, and
emotionally stressed from worrying about everyone else, they suffer
from allergies and other ailments.

Life-Path Issues

Health

Their strong, generally vigorous body and robust disposition fight off
most illness, but 20/2s are prone to tension as their worry and their
busy mind impose chronic, thought-produced stress on their
body. Allergies may flare up in times of stress, and physical tension
may obstruct the efficient working of the lymphatic portion of the
immune system.

Most 20/2s (like 4014s and 2214s) tend toward either stocky, wide
bodies, reflecting their strength, or more wiry bodies that are
surprisingly resilient. When excessive weight is an issue, 20/2s
benefit from aerobic exercise and a low-fat diet, along with
stretching, deep breathing, and relaxation or meditation
training. Meditation and suppleness are very important for 20/2s, but
they tend to avoid both, preferring outward, expansive training for
strength—a quality they already have in abundance. Most 20/2s have
great potential strength but lack flexibility, so the best kind of
exercise for them teaches flow, suppleness, and balance, as do dance,
yoga, t'ai chi, aikido, and other martial arts that emphasize
stretching and relaxation.

Nearly all 20/2s have c10se ties to the subconscious, so they benefit
from hypnosis and from positive visualization, in contrast to the
negative fantasies and concerns to which they sometimes fall prey.

Relationships

Most 20/2s tend to withhold their real feelings when they are
over-cooperating because they aren't always sure what they feel—or "if
it's okay" to feel that way. They generally pay attention to their
partner's needs and feelings first, but then they may feel burdened if
they believe they're giving more support than they are getting.

The tendency of 20/2s to overcooperate and then undercooperate reveals
itself most clearly in relationships. They put their feelings on the
back burner until something inside of them bursts, and then they
become reactive and resentful. Anger or resentment are signs that
20/2s have been overcooperating.

They typically start out a relationship in overcooperation, tossing
their own values, interests, and needs out the window and,
chameleon-like, becoming whatever their partner seems to want. Then,
eventually, they swing into undercooperation and withdraw or
resist. If their relationship ends, they feel hurt: "I gave so much,
and he/she left me!"

The ability to compromise and negotiate is crucial for 20/2s in
relationship: "I'll do this much if you do that much." They're here to
learn this kind of mutual cooperation.

Sexually, 20/2s follow the same patterns, first doing what they think
the other person wants them to do. This period may go on for a short
period or for many years—until they become frigid or impotent, or just
withdraw sexually. Their subconscious turns off from a sense of having
given too much. If this happens, 20/2s and their partners need to see
a professional to open up lines of communication and rapport; having
"a little talk" won't suffice.

Talents, Work, and Finances

When inspired, those working 20/2 "walk a straight path through
life"—balanced and unswayed by others' emotions, desires, or
opinions. They can excel in many fields due to a balance of strength
and sensitivity.

All 20/2s, with their inner gifts, demonstrate a powerful combination
of strength and sensitivity that creates unusual capacities that don't
always show on the surface. Like 40/4s, they generally gravitate
toward family life and serve as supportive, dependable, caring
helpmates and parents when working in the positive. They can also
serve as quintessential diplomats in family squabbles or in the larger
world of organizations or government.

Those working 20/2 have excellent organizing and coordinating
abilities and make excellent mediators or negotiators. They often
serve as invaluable assistants or support people whose presence and
work make a real difference in any enterprise. They don't always work
behind the scenes; sometimes they take center stage in front of the
cameras, or even in the Oval Office. But for every famous 20/2,
thousands work effectively behind the scenes.

Security is very important to 20/2s and entails knowing that the rent
or mortgage money is available, with enough left over to put food on
the table. Their practical nature will lead 20/2s, quite intuitively,
to the secure situation they seek, and to the form of service that
suits their abilities and temperament.

Some Well-Known 20/2s

Julie Andrews          Sidney Poitier

Richard Burton        Ronald Reagan

Piper Laurie            Debbie Reynolds

Norman Mailer        Dr. Benjamin Spock

Edouard Manet        Elizabeth Cady Stanton

Claude Monet          Robert Louis Stevenson

Car10s Montoya      Gloria Vanderbilt
Keys to Fulfilling Your Destiny

If you are working 20/2, this section can help you manifest your life
purpose by focusing your attention on core issues and by generating
specific action to transform key areas of your life.

Guidelines and Recommendations

    When making decisions, write your ideas down and then trust your intuition.
    Learn to say no and feel okay about it.
    Exercise daily, and be sure to include stretching and relaxation in your routine.
    Balance giving with receiving.

Useful Questions

1.       Reflect on the following questions:

·         Do I sometimes bend too far backward for people and then feel resentful?

·         Where does my responsibility end and other people's begin?

·         Do I respect my comfort zone?

·         Do I feel trapped in any life situation?

2.  If these questions generate any insights, how might you put these
insights into practice?  Deepening Your Understanding

1.  Turn to Part Two and reread the main sections covering the digits
that make up your birth number: 2 (p. 38) and 0 (p. 103).

2.  You may wish to review birth numbers of family and friends and, if
they are open to it, discuss similar or different issues in your
lives.

Spiritual Laws: The Leverage to Change Your Life

1.      Read about each of the following laws in Part Four:

·         The Law of Responsibility (p. 336): When we know when to say yes and how to say no, we find mutual support and joy in service.

·         The Law of Balance (p. 341): Seeing our tendency to swing from one extreme to another, we find our balance point.

·         The Law of Cycles (p. 394): Life is a circle of repeating changes, rising and falling like the seasons.

·         The Law of Patterns (p. 349): Patterns tend to reassert themselves unless we exert strong leverage to change them.

·         The Law of Flexibility (p. 324): Staying flexible, we make the best use of difficulties and changing circumstances.

2.      Do the exercises you find for each of these laws.

3.      Consider how you might apply each law to your life.

12: Creative Cooperation

The time has come for us to stop tuning separate instruments and,
together, to create a symphony.

ANONYMOUS

The energy of 12 provides an equal synthesis of 1 (p. 31) and 2
(p. 38), resulting in a unique and powerful form of creative
cooperation.Individuals working 12, including those with birth numbers
39/12 and 48/12, may demonstrate all of the abilities and face all of
the issues of 1 and 2, but the combination means that their creativity
shines most brightly, and manifests most fully, in cooperation with
others.

An example of creative cooperation is that of an author and an editor
working together to create the best possible book. People who work
with or support screenwriters, songwriters, or musicians provide other
classic examples. Creative cooperation can appear in any field where
people work together to solve problems, do original work, or create
sparks together where, individually, neither of them could have
accomplished as much.

