32/5 & 23/5

5: Freedom and Discipline
2: Cooperation and Balance
3: Expression and Sensitivity

Understanding Life Purpose

Those on the 32/5 or 23/5 life path are here to work through issues
related to independence, emotional honesty, and cooperation, finally
experiencing freedom through discipline and depth of experience. Since
our life path presents hurdles to overcome, both 32/5s and 2315s
confront internal challenges, tendencies, and conflicts in areas of
dependence and independence, responsibility, and honest expression of
emotion.

Individuals working 32/5 or 23/5 are nearly identical in terms of the
fundamental energies of their birth number, the only difference being
the reversed order of the 3 and 2. Most 23/5s tend to be late
bloomers, taking longer to come into their confidence due to the more
predominant 3 energy, with its issues of sensitivity and self-doubt;
they also have stronger fears along with a stronger drive toward
expression than 32/5s.

Most 32/5s have deeper issues around cooperation than their
counterparts; they tend to give their all for someone, even letting go
of their own multifaceted identity and, chameleonlike, adapting to the
values, interests, and desires of their partner. Then, somewhere down
the line, to the degree they have ignored their own needs, they may
withdraw emotionally or become resentful.

This is not to say that 32/5s don't display the self-doubt of 23/5s or
that 23/5s don't have the issues around cooperation of their 32/5
counterparts, but the relative influence of 2 and 3 energies differs
in each case based on their position in the birth number.

Both 32/5s and 23/5s are here to experience true freedom. The phrase
true freedom implies the idea of false freedoms—for example,
self-indulgence, irresponsibility, or license—when 32/5s or 23/5s
insist on doing whatever they want to do, whenever they want to do
it. Only those 32/5s and 23/5s who have not yet matured into a more
positive expression of 5 strive for such "freedom."

The freedom sought by most 32/5s and 23/5s manifests as a drive to
experience and know; this freedom entails a sense of mobility in
different arenas of life—physical, mental, emotional, social, sexual,
and financial. Those working 32/5 or 23/5 seek to explore
opportunities and find adventure where they can, whether in life, in
books, or at the movies.

Sometimes the drive for experience is so strong that 32/5s and 23/5s
end up trying to juggle too many things to avoid missing an
opportunity and end up feeling scattered or depleted. Many 32/5s, in
particular, burn their candle at both ends. While 23/5s may have less
confidence at first and 32/5s are more likely to overreach their
limits, both are quick learners, living by their wits, with varied
abilities and experience.

Both 32/5s and 23/5s can sometimes focus obsessively on whatever they
are doing and 10se sight of the bigger picture. Like all 5s, they need
discipline, focus, and a sense of priorities to help free
themselves. The ultimate freedom 32/5s and 23/5s seek is internal—the
freedom to be themselves, the freedom from self-doubt, the freedom
from fear. Only by establishing this internal sense of expansiveness
can they feel the fulfillment of their destiny in the external
world. However, one way to generate internal freedom is by facing
outer experience. Since the external world reflects the world of our
psyche, by tackling outer challenges, both 32/5s and 23/5s have a
chance to confront and transcend the issues of self-doubt and
cooperation that bind them. Adventures, whether large or small, serve
them well as they stretch their limits, take some emotional risks, and
explore their capacities.

The energy of 2, which sometimes tends toward overcoopera-tion,
combined with the dramatic energies of 3 and 5, can generate a kind of
"martyr complex." These individuals want to save people, save the
world, and fight for freedom. The more dramatic the means, the
better. Writing to congressional representatives just isn't enough for
them. They prefer drama—both on television and in real life.

Since 32/5s and 23/5s tend to be quick-witted, fast learners, they
also get bored easily. Boredom is their personal hell. If things get
boring, they generally stir up a little drama on their
own. Ultimately, the freedom they seek entails illumination and
spiritual liberation—expanding their consciousness to the point where
the universe becomes their playground. At this point, their body no
longer feels like a prison, because they have cultivated their visual
imagination and their innate clairvoyant (clear-seeing) abilities and
can "travel" far beyond the confines of their body.

Most 5s have explored many areas of life. The liability is that they
get a broad range of experience, but a relatively shallow one. Through
discipline and focus, both 32/5s and 23/5s enter the depths of
experience, going into a few areas deeply enough that they discover
the spiritual laws that underlie all aspects of life; in doing so,
they find a deeper sense of freedom. Without such discipline, 32/5s or
23/5 tend to skim the surface or get scattered trying to do everything
at once. By focusing their energies and attention—by setting clear
priorities and sticking with them—they go deeper into the experience
of freedom.

Just as 2s tend to swing back and forth between the extremes of
undercooperation and overcooperation, 32/5s and 23/5s tend to swing
between the extremes of dependence and independence. Ultimately, they
need to find a comfortable balance. They achieve this balance by
allowing themselves to explore each extreme, learning about
independence through examining their dependency issues, for
example. They may find themselves dependent on others as a result of
an accident, an illness, or a financial setback, or they may actively
create a dependent relationship because of doubts or insecurity about
their ability to take care of themselves. Their challenge is to use
these experiences to reestablish a healthy balance of independence and
appropriate interdependence—in the sense of being able to receive from
others.

Out of insecurity, both 32/5s and 23/5s tend to hide behind their
social roles. They benefit from remembering that they are more than
the roles they play. Their ability to bluffer role-play enables 32/5s
and 23/5s to manipulate others consciously or unconsciously, using
emotions such as anger to get their way.

Whether they spend their weekends going on safari or watching the
soaps, skydiving or taking care of children, 32/5s and 23/5s have a
vivacious quality, a renaissance view of the world. Even if they
haven't yet experienced their adventurous or freedom-oriented
qualities, sooner or later, in their own way, when they come into
their full confidence, 32/5s and 23/5s can discover the potential of
their lives, the depth, and the boundless state of freedom within.

Working 32/5 or 23/5 in the Positive

Feeling free inside, unbounded by limiting beliefs or fears, these
multifaceted individuals are willing to take emotional
risks. "Adventurers in daily life," they may or may not choose to go
white-water rafting or skydiving, but they have developed the
discipline to dig deeply into life, into the heart of experience,
rather than just skim the surface. Passionate and adventurous, like
Zorba the Greek, they teach by example and excitement. With their
quick minds, they see and describe life in new ways. They have formed
good habits and enjoy variety within a daily routine. Clever, witty,
and fun loving, they make the ordinary into something extraordinary.

Working 32/5 or 23/5 in the Negative

Feeling insecure, these individuals manipulate and control others,
usually by getting angry or by withdrawing. Or they try too hard to
please others and later resent others for their own imbalance. They
unintentionally create situations in which they become dependent on
someone or something, such as drugs or money. They give away their
freedom or limit their experience out of fear and
self-doubt. Scattered and quickly bored, they are emotional con
artists. Lacking clear boundaries, they play different roles or
experience different selves through television or books. Addicted to
dramas of one kind or another, they remain at the mercy of their
search for varied experience.

Life-Path Issues

Health

Both 32/5s and 2315s have a sensitive body that tends toward the slim
and wiry due to their fast metabolism, which reflects the pace of
their lives. Even those with a round body don't let that slow them
down. Because of their sensitivity, they may use fat or muscle as a
psychic buffer. The throat area may reflect issues of withheld
expression, but more commonly, 32/5s and 23/5s need to avoid
overtaxing their adrenals and nervous system, since they tend to get
scattered and stressed or fatigued. If they have erratic or
undisciplined habits of diet or exercise, their circulatory system may
suffer. In addition, accidents can occur if they physically overextend
themselves or overreach their abilities.

If they use drugs as a form of "adventure," they will eventually come,
through hard experience, to learn that drugs can only enslave them.

A balanced, low-fat diet and regular exercise are both very important
disciplines for 32/5s and 23/5s. Their exercise regimen needs to
include varied exercises that are fun and efficient. Cross training,
moving to music, dancing, martial arts, and hiking are all excellent.

Relationships

Those who travel alone in life, with no responsibilities to spouse,
partner, or children, seem to have a kind of "freedom" in the sense of
having no one to answer to and fewer compromises to make. But
individuals do not necessarily find freedom in isolation. The
influence of 2 means that, at some point, both 32/5s and 23/5s have to
work through issues of cooperation with self and others. Committed
relationships provide the arena.

Because of built-in challenges in the areas of freedom and
independence, some 32/5s and 23/5s may project their own lack of
internal freedom onto their partner, companion, or children: "They are
blocking my freedom! They don't let me go out and do what I want to
do." Some 32/5s and 23/5s do, indeed, attract or choose partners who
will bring up freedom issues or upon whom they become dependent and
whom they then resent. A c10ser look reveals that 32/5s and 23/5s
limit their own freedom. Once they take responsibility for their own
life and realize that they can become the writer and director in their
own movie, they cease resenting others for "stopping them" and find
more freedom in cooperation than in reactive independence or
isolation.

Both 32/5s and 23/5s have an emotionally sensitive body and energy
field, but both often have some difficulty revealing their
feelings. In their relationships, they need to find the courage to
express what they feel.

They also need to acknowledge a desire for variety and adventure and
find a way to fulfill this desire with their partner if they are in a
committed relationship. Whether they see their relationship as a
doorway to deeper freedom and experience or as a jail determines how
the relationship fares.

In the area of sexuality, 32/5s and 23/5s can be very shy and insecure
or sensual, adventurous, and passionate—or all of the preceding. They
often enjoy fantasies and playing different roles. Their relationships
and sexual play present an opportunity to experience new levels of
liberation by breaking free of roles to find new levels of emotional
authenticity and vulnerability.

Talents, Work, and Finances

These individuals appreciate variety as the spice of life, so any
occupation that allows them to explore many facets of experience, such
as teaching, writing, acting, music, politics, leading trainings,
court reporting, or sales work that involves travel and working with a
variety of people, can suit their talents and interests. With so many
talents, they can do almost anything that appeals to them.

Financially, even though security is an issue, money isn't as high a
priority as the experiences it can buy; given a choice between money
in savings or a chance for adventure or a learning experience, 32/5s
and 23/5s will elect the experience, and they may sometimes spend
money before they earn it. They appreciate a safe, secure home base
(preferably with a fireplace), but when they come to their full
confidence, 32/5s and 23/5s tend to trade security for adventure. With
the quick wit of 5s, they can usually find or create money when they
need it and stay at least one step ahead of any creditors.
