26/8

8: Abundance and Power

6: Vision and Acceptance

2: Cooperation and Balance

Understanding Life Purpose

Those on the 26/8 life path are here to work through issues of
perfectionism, money, power, and recognition, sharing their abundance
in alignment with their highest vision and ideals, in the service of
others. Since our life purpose poses specific challenges, the life of
26/8s reflects their conflicting drives and beliefs about money,
power, and high profile, and their innate idealism can tend to inhibit
the personal power they are here to make manifest. Eventually, 26/8s
stand up, assert themselves, and gain recognition within their family,
in their community, or in the world at large.

When 26/8s get recognized, it's usually due to the quality of their
work. They can work hard for money and recognition, but they have
mixed feelings about both due to their inherent idealism. In the
negative, the influence of 2 can create inner conflicts, for example,
about whether they're undervaluing their service and charging too
little or feeling "greedy" and charging too much. The 6 part of them
may say, "Charge less; it's the right thing to do," while the 8 part
may say, "I want more!" or may be so afraid of abusing money that they
give their skills away for free to avoid the risk of someone being
upset or angry with them. Many 26/8s are sensitive to criticism due to
the 6 influence, which also can mean they hold back from expressing
themselves to maintain their "cool."

Those working 26/8 tend to be either passive or aggressive, but in
general, they usually tend to be more subdued. Depending on their
level of self-worth, which may be shaky due to the high standards of
the 6, they tend to give away their power and lack self-assertiveness
when dealing with emotional confrontations.

Given their high standards, 26/8s often deflect praise and devalue
their worth and influence; ignoring their achievements and remembering
their mistakes, they have trouble truly enjoying the fruits of their
efforts. When caught in repetitive rituals of achievement, 26/8s need
to remember the magic words "not perfect but good enough." When they
stop holding themselves back, they produce quality work that supports
others. Unless they are hiding, 26/8s work hard to rise above the
crowd in their immediate surroundings or in the world at large; they
strive for security and recognition, although most 8s would deny that
they seek recognition unless they're willing to take a c10se look at
their life and their actions—for example, when they're in a group of
people, they arrange to get noticed. If they are working 8 in the
negative, they may be hiding from money, power, or
recognition—avoiding the very arenas they are here to master.

Most 26/8s tend to compete with and compare themselves to others in
terms of levels of recognition, wealth, or influence. Deep down, they
want to come out on top, although this desire may be subtle or subdued
because of the 6 influence. If they become aware of this tendency,
26/8s generally want to "correct" it. Their desire for improvement,
however, becomes more of the same game of comparison: "I no longer
compare myself to others like those other people I know."

Most 26/8s work very hard to achieve money or recognition because a
core belief generated by the high standards of 6 is that they have to
"suffer," or at least go through difficulty and discomfort, to earn or
deserve their abundance. Due to their high standards, whatever 26/8s
do, they feel they could have done better. This can hold them back
from stepping forward in their family, among colleagues, or in the
world. But when 26/8s get past their issues about money and power,
which include negative feelings about wealthy or powerful people, they
tend to make good money and use it to bring out a stronger sense of
self. When struggling financially, they may feel controlled by others;
when successful, they tend to feel expansive and generous.

Those working 26/8 often display a childlike purity stemming from the
influence of 6 energy, and they often mature late. The demands and
challenges of raising a family as well as working in or creating a
successful business provide the initiation to help them feel like
competent adults. Without such challenges, they may avoid hard work
and recognition and do just enough to "get by." Perfectionism, along
with fear of money or power, can hold some 26/8s back from getting off
the ground; they may feel disheartened, not by life's challenges, but
by their own unrealistic expectations.

Nearly all 26/8s want to control their own life, but at the same time,
they want to "do the right thing" by others. Therefore, they sometimes
give mixed messages to other people; on the surface, they want to
please and to be liked, but beneath this, others may sense a powerful,
even compulsive, drive for control. When feeling powerless, 26/8s find
it hard to stand up for themselves; they typically experience and
subconsciously attract subtle or not-so-subtle forms of abuse in their
life, ranging from being taken for granted, being taken advantage of,
and being verbally criticized to being physically beaten. They
generally seek to avoid social or emotional confrontations, but when
pushed to the wall, few people can push back harder.

Although the pure ideals of 6 generally keep 26/8s from abusing power
or squandering money, if they don't feel worthy of success, they may
subconsciously arrange for an accident, a dishonest or incompetent
partner, or another form of self-sabotage. The Law of Higher Will
(p. 381) helps open the way to a life of abundance and service for
26/8s by reminding them of their higher purpose.

Working 26/8 in the Positive

With their high standards and vision, these individuals make good
money, doing what they enjoy, serving other people. They feel a sense
of balanced inner power in their relationships, their work, and their
life. Out of a sense of expansive abundance, they can hold on or let
go as appropriate, without the need to manipulate or control
others. They maintain their sense of fairness and integrity and serve
as a positive and uplifting influence in the world, using their power
and position to help others, perhaps through philanthropy. They hold
money and recognition in perspective, focusing on their higher
purpose.

Working 26/8 in the Negative

These unassertive individuals feel timid, invisible, and
ignored. Deeply frustrated in their own endeavors, they resent "rich
people" due to their own negative beliefs about money. They find it
difficult to get along with others or to form relationships, and they
get into power struggles unless the lines of authority are clearly
defined. Overcon-trolling perfectionists, they are critical of others,
especially those who don't show them respect. They undervalue
themselves and their work, judging themselves against unrealistically
high standards, and they refrain from taking on challenges in the
material world. They not only avoid the fast lane, they don't even get
on the highway.

Life-Path Issues

Health

If 26/8s haven't resolved their perfectionistic standards and
subconscious negativity about money and power, they may sabotage
themselves by getting ill, divorced, or injured to avoid a big
success.

If frustrated, 26/8s may experience chronic tension in their solar
plexus, inhibiting breathing and draining their energy, or tension
around the neck from self-imposed pressure. When they are run-down,
26/8s may develop sinus infections, a sure sign for them to ease up on
themselves. They tend to drive themselves too hard, then have to
recuperate, but a short period of self-pampering is usually all that's
required.

Most 26/8s pay attention to laws of good nutrition due to their high
standards, but because they work hard, they also like to indulge
themselves in ways ranging from having a "relaxing drink" or taking
other drugs to treating themselves to a massage, sauna, and maybe
sweets as a consolation for their efforts. The pattern of hard work
and then indulgence, along with wanting to maintain a high self-image,
means that some 26/8s fall into eating disorders as they overcontrol
and then undercontrol themselves, resulting in dietary swings or even
bulimia or anorexia. Moderation can be a challenge for 26/8s. With
their high standards, 26/8s seek to improve their diet and everything
else in their life. As with most people, a varied, low-fat diet works
well for them.

Most 26/8s who exercise regularly tend to seek an efficient and
balanced form of exercise. Depending upon their background and
interests, they may pursue sports as a means of achieving recognition
or practice weight lifting as a way to feel powerful. Any kind of
physical activity that appeals to them works fine, and they usually
excel at whatever they do.

Relationships

The standards of 26/8s are so high that they can be hard to live with;
either they're judging everyone else by these standards or they're
setting an almost impossible example as they strive to be a Mr. or
Ms. Perfect.

Those working 26/8 may have trouble knowing or expressing how they
really feel because they have learned to focus on the "best way" to
feel and then wear that mask. They need to tune into their authentic
feelings and needs.

Many 26/8s have trouble with long-term relationships or making
commitments, especially when they are focusing on trying to find the
"perfect" relationship. In other cases, they start out by projecting
their idealized image on someone and then feel disappointed or even
deceived when that person turns out to be only human after all. Then
they set out to improve that person whether he or she is interested or
not. In relationships, 26/8s benefit from applying the Law of
Flexibility (p. 324).

Sexually, 26/8s want to do the right thing, and they often focus on
"being good" in bed and pleasing their partner rather than expressing
their own needs and then just letting go. They may tend to maintain
control subtly, either of their partner or just of themselves. They
need to shift from performance to loving interplay and intimacy. Then
their relationship reflects back to them the abundance they feel
inside,

Talents, Work, and Finances

When working in the positive, due to their high standards and their
drive for recognition and success, 26/8s can do almost anything well
and tend to rise above the crowd because they work hard and strive to
improve themselves. Yet they rarely feel like they're performing as
well as they could. They need to feel appreciated for their work, and
they tend to strive for a high income. Due to their high ideals, they
sometimes have a hard time finding work that feels meaningful
enough. Driven toward yet afraid of high profile and recognition, they
tend to be late bloomers until, finally, they come to value themselves
and the quality of their work, emerging as a positive influence on
others.

Some Weil-Known 26/8s

Muhammad Ali             James Baldwin

Lucille Ball                   Cesar Chavez

Bob Dylan                    Mary Baker Eddy

Jack London                 Groucho Marx

Liza Minnelli                 Paul Newman

Sir Laurence Olivier      Jesse Owens

Barbra Streisand           Elizabeth Taylor

Keys to Fulfilling Your Destiny

If you are working 26/8, this section can help you manifest your life
purpose by focusing your attention on core issues and by generating
specific action to transform key areas of your life.

Guidelines and Recommendations

    Act with quiet power and confidence.
    Find something in which you can excel and persevere.
    Recognize your value, and let your light shine.
    Balance work with personal relationships.

Useful Questions

1.    Reflect on the following questions:

·         Do I strive for or avoid money and power?

·         Do I feel I have to do more to deserve success?

·         Do I assert myself in a balanced, consistent way?

·         How have my high standards helped my work and how have they held me back?

2.  If these questions generate any insights, how might you put these
insights into practice?

Deepening Your Understanding

1.  Turn to Part Two and reread the main sections covering the digits
that make up your birth number: 2 (p. 38), 6 (p. 70), and 8 (p. 87).

2.  You may wish to review birth numbers of family and friends and, if
they are open to it, discuss similar or different issues in your
lives.

Spiritual Laws: The Leverage to Change Your Life

    Read about each of the following laws in Part Four:

· The Law of Honesty (p. 377): To be honest with others, we first have
  to be honest with ourselves.

· The Law of Perfection (p. 358): High vision can inspire us, but
   excellence over time is the best we can achieve.

· The Law of Process (p. 346): We can best achieve our goals by taking
  one small, sure step at a time.

· The Law of Responsibility (p. 336): To establish mutual support, we
  need to know when to say yes and how to say no.

· The Law of No Judgments (p. 365): The universe does not judge us; it
  only teaches us through consequences.

Do the exercises you find for each of these laws. Consider how you
might apply each law to your life.
