30/3

3: Expression and Sensitivity

30: Expression and Sensitivity With Inner Gifts

Understanding Life Purpose

the 30/3 life path are here to work through issues of expression and
sensitivity, overcoming self-doubt to express themselves and use their
inner gifts to encourage, uplift, and inspire others. Most people come
into life to work a mixture of energies, but for 30/3s, their work and
destiny are clear and focused. Those working 30/3 have the support of
inner gifts, which include highly tuned sensitivity, inner strength,
expressiveness, and intuition. All of these resources complement and
support one major life theme: emotional expression.

However, since our life purpose isn't what comes easiest, 30/3s have
distinct hurdles to overcome before they can fulfill their
destiny. Because 30/3s resonate with the perfectionism of 6s and feel
acutely sensitive to the pain and suffering of others, they are prone
to feeling disappointed and disheartened at times, and to expressing
in negative ways, such as criticizing and complaining.

They have an inherent drive to express themselves; this expression
comes out in either positive or negative ways, but it comes
out. Emotional expression may not come easily for 30/3s at first; they
may start out inhibited, but once they get rolling, the words flow.

The arena in which 30/3s express may be large, as in performance,
teaching, or addressing large groups, or smaller, involving a circle
of family and friends. In either case, the challenges and joys of
30/3s arise from expressing their feelings through speech or creative
endeavors, such as painting, music, or other media, and from helping
others to express their feelings as well.

Their expression b1ossoms with other people, perhaps one on one at
first. Eventually, if they draw forth the courage, many 30/3s find the
opportunity to speak before groups of people. I often recommend
public-speaking courses for 30/3s.

Due to their innate emotional sensitivity, many 30/3s go a little numb
or put up psychological armor as a defense against the emotional
turbulence around them. They may appear unemotional to others, but
strong, even passionate, feelings lie just beneath the surface. Those
working 30/3 long for passionate involvement and an emotional
connection with others, and they often create intense dramas in their
life to stir up emotions around them. Many 30/3s like to watch or act
in soap operas, because of their drama and emotionality. They make
good actors, because they can identify with emotions and model any
quality.

The inner gifts of expression, sensitivity, and spiritual discernment
amplify 30/3s' already-existing sensitivity. People working other
birth numbers, such as 12/3 and 21/3, are also here to express
themselves, but 30/3s combine their innate sensitivity and expressive
drive as 3s with the inner gifts of sensitivity and expressiveness. To
the degree that 30/3s are in touch with their feelings, they have
acutely developed intuitive powers. When they read the newspapers or
turn their attention to the world around them, they feel what needs to
be done, and they express it.

Those working 30/3 need to focus on finding skillful means to express
positive ways to deal with problems. They may feel fully justified in
complaining, because they usually point out wrongs that do, indeed,
need to be addressed, but the challenge for 30/3s is finding ways to
channel and release their expressive energy constructively. They need
to express themselves honestly and directly but in the most positive
and effective ways. They need to focus on the solution, not the
problem. This is good advice for anyone, but especially important for
30/3s, for as they describe the world, they see the world.

If 3s in general make the best depressives, 30/3s, with extreme
sensitivity and self-doubt, have depression down to a fine
art. Flip-flopping between "I can do anything" and "It's just too much
for me—I'm not ready," they sometimes slip from confident highs into
emotional slumps, feeling the weight of self-doubt, a major issue that
sometimes stops them in their tracks just when they are about to
succeed. Self-doubt tends to make 30/3s feel unprepared, not good
enough, or not up to a task. Self-doubt can discourage and depress
30/3s until they see it as a challenge they are here to overcome, a
hurdle for them to leap over as they push onward and upward.

The greatest gift of 30/3s lies in expression and inspired
communication. Whether through speaking, acting, writing, or art, they
find joy in moving others emotionally, perhaps moving them to action,
to change, or to happiness. In the positive, their effectiveness comes
from an ability to speak with feeling—not just from the mind, but from
the heart.

People working 30/3 have obstacles to overcome before achieving such
expressive magic, because our life purpose always holds special
challenges. In general, 30/3s start out feeling less capable and more
afraid of self-expression or public speaking than the average person
who isn't working 3 energy. When they step into the arena, however,
they find great satisfaction; they feel, in some fundamental way, that
they are home.

Working 30/3 in the Positive

These individuals bring enthusiasm, compassion, understanding, and
service into the world, in ways large or small, through their creative
expression. Whatever their occupation, when they speak, they do so
with attunement and sensitivity, and they uplift others. They are
enthusiastic and connected to their emotions, and their expressiveness
is passionate, forthright, and even inspired. They are honest in
communicating their needs and feelings, neither manipulating nor
allowing themselves to be manipulated. They manage their lives
responsibly, not letting their own or other people's emotions run
them. They use their inner gifts of expression, sensitivity, and
intuition in the service of others, with a joy and altruism that
further amplifies these resources, putting 30/3s in touch with the
subtle aspects and mystery of existence.

Working 30/3 in the Negative

Depressed about the love they feel they lack from others, these
individuals complain about the wrongs of society and of their life,
feeling justified because there's much to criticize in this
world. Needy and hypersensitive, they whine or manipulate instead of
stating honestly and directly what they need, who they are, and how
they feel. Some are completely blocked in their sexual natures, while
others have trouble with emotional or sexual fidelity and often get
into promiscuous situations.

Life-Path Issues

Health

Most 30/3s, especially those with suppressed emotions, experience
vulnerability in the throat area due to blocked expression. If 30/3s
feel a scratchy throat or a blockage there, they need to ask
themselves, "What do I need to express that I'm holding back?" Often,
once they express what they feel, their throat quickly
recuperates. Music that opens the heart, touches the emotions, and
enlivens or uplifts is always healing for 30/3s, whose health or
illness reflects their emotional state.

Their heart and knees also feel sensitive and vulnerable at
times. Those who have problems with misunderstanding, which 30/3s are
prone to because of their issues with expression, often get energy
blockages around the knees, which over time affect the circulation and
eventually the physical structure.

Those working 30/3 need to eat and exercise according to what feels
right to them intuitively—what feels emotionally as well as physically
good. But they need to take care not to be run by their moods or to
seek emotional consolation in the form of food or self-pampering when
they are feeling lovelorn. When they are feeling blue, expansive
exercise to music lifts their spirits.

Relationships

Nearly all 30/3s have a needy emotional quality that says, "Appreciate
me"; they look for this emotional support in the outside world rather
than in themselves. Although they sometimes expect a lot without
giving back in return, they also have a great capacity to give.

Although 30/3s can appear unemotional, even coldly rational, as a
reaction to their sensitivity, they have an extremely large and
sensitive emotional energy field. Their voice usually reveals their
feeling nature, and their ability to tune into others' feelings
enhances their relationships.

Despite appearances to the contrary, 30/3s are romantics at
heart. They love to fall in love, and they periodically get emotional
"crushes." They need to be very direct and straightforward about this
tendency with their partner if they have one. When they feel free to
express feeling attracted to someone, this helps clear any obsessive
tendencies toward the current attraction. In other words, they can
have more lasting relationships by acknowledging and expressing, but
not acting upon, infatuations that pass through their lives. Sometimes
their emotions run them, and they get involved in promiscuous
situations or infidelities (whether real or imagined) and then wonder
what happened.

The emotional aura or energy field of 30/3s is their primary
"erogenous zone." If their emotions are shut down, sexual technique
doesn't help. When in a loving mood, however, they are moved by
passion—technique is secondary.

Relationships, for 30/3s, present a monumental opportunity to work
through issues of honest expression and emotional vulnerability. They
do well to view relationships not only as a form of consolation and
nurturance, but as a form of spiritual practice.

Talents, Work, and Finances

With their inner gifts of expression, sensitivity, and intuition— and
their developed expressive abilities—30/3s help to uplift and nourish
others around them in their immediate world or in a larger arena. They
may choose to be teachers, salespeople, writers, or lecturers—any role
that reminds people of the feeling side of their lives. They have
inherent gifts in any form of teaching, counseling, healing,
performing, or creative expression due to their ability to tune into
people and subtle dimensions. Those working 30/3 can also follow a
social service path, and they tend to make good managers. They can be
successful in any field, but they feel most fulfilled if their work
offers opportunities for self-expression.

In addition to their emotional sensitivity, those working 30/3 also
have a superb depth of intuitive intelligence that cuts to the heart
of some of life's core issues. Therefore, they do well in any field
that involves clear logic and reason.

Any lack of money relates in some way to self-doubt. If 30/3s use
their gifts and expression in the positive, money follows.
