31/4 & 13/4

4: Stability and Process

1: Creativity and Confidence

3: Expression and Sensitivity

Understanding Life Purpose

Those on the 31/4 or 13/4 life path are here to work through issues of
stability, creativity, and emotional, expression, learning to channel
their energy in constructive ways and to master a step-by-step process
to their goals. Since our life purpose doesn't come easily, 31/4s have
to overcome self-doubt and insecurity to develop the confidence
necessary to follow a long, sometimes arduous process to reach their
goals. Until then, they operate on hopes, wishes, or enthusiastic
illusions. Since both 31/4s and 13/4s are here to ground their energy
and develop secure foundations, they often confront tendencies toward
instability and lack of commitment, which run counter to their life
purpose.

To overcompensate for insecurity, many 31/4s develop highly ambitious,
even egotistical personas—"big egos" that work to prove their worth as
they strive to stay in a superior position due to fears of inferiority
beneath the surface.

The combination of strong foundation energy, creative energy, and
expressive energy gives 31/4s and 13/4s a well-balanced, synergistic
blend of strength, sensitivity, and creativity. This blend of
energies, combined with a drive for security and strong ambitions,
creates a multifaceted potential for success. When these qualities and
drives are working in harmony, 31/4s and 13/4s can accomplish their
highest aspirations. But if these same qualities and drives work
against one another or manifest in negative ways, then frustration and
failures cloud their life.

The willingness to pursue and persist in a gradual process is
essential to bringing the highest creativity and expression of 31/4s
and 13/4s into the world. Whether their foundation rests on family,
home, land, education, or work, this foundation forms the stable base
for expanding out into life. A secure "home base" and a safe, settled,
orderly environment amplify these individuals' impact many times
over. Bursts of inspiration or spurts of energy do not substitute for
diligent work over time. The life they build depends upon the
preparations they make and the process they follow.

The order and relative influence of 1 and 3 result in the only
significant difference between 31/4s and 13/4s: With 31/4s, creative
energy has a stronger influence than expressive energy; with 13/4s,
expressive issues predominate. For 31/4s, strong creative drives, a
confident, outgoing persona, and a constant striving for success veil
an underlying insecurity. They can be highly competitive because they
feel they need to prove themselves to overcome their fear of not
measuring up, of inferiority. Most 13/4s, on the other hand, feel more
acute self-doubt, which manifests as a fear of insufficient capacity
and appears, from time to time, like storm clouds in an otherwise
clear sky.

Other than these slight differences in emphasis, 31/4s and 13/4s have
nearly identical drives and issues: They both show strong drives for
creative expression. They share strength, ambition, and a desire for
status. The twin shadows of self-doubt and insecurity confront both
31/4s and 13/4s with worthy challenges on the way to manifesting their
strength and achieving success. A key concept for 31/4s and 13/4s is
that success in terms of their life purpose lies not so much in
achieving the end product as in their ability to go through the
necessary process.

Many 31/4s and 13/4s have experienced difficult family histories,
sometimes entailing physical abuse by at least one parent or perhaps a
military childhood that meant they had to move around and never had a
stable home life. Because our life purpose doesn't come easily, they
have had hurdles to overcome in the area of establishing strong
foundations. Even if they come from relatively stable households,
31/4s and 13/4s benefit from working through issues of animosity,
resentment, misunderstanding, or other turmoil to rebuild a sense of
stable foundation. They need to express all of their emotions,
including anger and resentment, before they can express their
love. They don't have to agree with their parents, but they need to
bring any issues into the open and express their feelings, even if
their parents are deceased. Both 31/4s and 13/4s can also learn many
lessons from their own children or other children.

Because 31/4s and 13/4s tend to experience a division rather than an
integration between mind and emotions, they especially need to blend
emotional intuition with mental clarity. When making a decision, they
can ask, "What would my calmest, clearest, most aware self do right
now?" By trusting their gut feelings, they can avoid confusion;
otherwise, they tend to analyze everything to death. Once they feel
clarity, they can teach it to others.

As for other 4s, the primary challenge and hurdle for 31/4s and 13/4s
involves following a step-by-step process—remembering that even the
most overwhelming goal is easier when broken down into small
steps. Since the life purpose of 31/4s and 13/4s, which involves
process, does not come easily, a part of them hates things that take a
long time and a slow, careful process to achieve. Combining the
inherent impatience of 4 with the creative inspiration of 1, many
31/4s and 13/4s like things to happen quickly, even magically. On the
other hand, the self-doubt of 3 may slow them down and lead to
overpreparation or obsession with one step.

Those 31/4s and 13/4s who have previously moved through a structured
process, such as athletes, musicians, or anyone who has stuck with a
process of skill training, are way ahead of the game, because they
have a template or model they can apply to anything else they do.

Once 31/4s and 13/4s create a stable environment, see past insecurity
and self-doubt, and find the patience to follow a step-by-step process
to their goals, it's only a matter of time before they reach them.

Working 31/4 or 13/4 in the Positive

These individuals have developed a sound financial base as well as a
personal base of family, friends, and associates. They make decisions
by blending head (analysis) and heart (intuition), and they have
learned to trust the process of their life. Well-rounded achievers,
they have followed goals to completion as they have learned skills,
and they use that understanding to reach any goal. Dependable and
stable, they have the blend of strength, flexibility, sensitivity, and
creative sparkle that serves as a source of practical support and
encouragement to others.

Working 31/4 or 13/4 in the Negative

Even if they have a place to live, these individuals lack an inner
sense of stability; it's as if they were living out of a
suitcase. Uncommitted and lacking follow-through, they never feel sure
how long they'll stay in one place, in one job, or with one
person. Ambitious but impatient, they touch down many places, but they
don't put down roots. Confusion underlies their lack of commitment;
they don't feel sure of what they're "supposed" to be doing. They
think one thing and feel another, so they don't know what they
want. This split between mind and emotions leads to impulsive
decisions and then obsessive regrets. They experience more starts and
stops than completions. With their unrealistic expectations, they want
to be a success without going through the process to get there. Their
outward bravado or superior air covers up feelings of self-doubt and
insecurity.

Life-Path Issues

Health

The strength of 31/4s and 13/4s, amplified by creative energy, gives
them robust appeal, ruggedness, and resistance to everyday
illness. Their body type tends to be either wide bodied and bottom
heavy or solidly athletic, depending largely upon genetics and
lifestyle; either way, they are basically strong. However, they are
vulnerable at "foundation points," such as ankles, knees, thighs, and
hips.

Mental stress or resistance can create physical as well as energetic
constipation and can compromise the immune system. Forms of
meditation, relaxation, suppleness training, and free movement, such
as the martial arts of aikido or t'ai chi, are all useful—as is
anything that teaches them to blend, flow, and accept rather than
resist. Forms of physical skill training, such as dance or martial
arts, offer special benefits because they help turn rigid strength
into supple, dynamic power and give 31/4s and 13/4s a direct
experience of following a process and experiencing improvement over
time. These individuals thrive on exercise and particularly enjoy
social sports.

Given the varied 3,1, and 4 energies, 31/4s and 13/4s have no
predictable dietary tendencies, but a balanced, low-fat diet serves as
a good foundation. If 31/4s and 13/4s are overweight, their success in
10sing their excess weight depends upon their willingness to follow a
gradual process toward a lifestyle of less fat and more exercise;
fitful, heroic efforts directed toward quick results at best bring
only temporary results. The success of 31/4s and 13/4s in this or any
enterprise depends upon a patient, persistent approach.

Relationships

The easy sociability of 31/4s and 13/4s attracts many friends and
admirers. They tend to be gregarious, family oriented, and generally
relaxed with people. But their air of confidence often hides an
insecurity they are wise to acknowledge to themselves and others in
order to achieve a new level of authenticity. In their vulnerability,
they can find new strength. Since 4 issues lead them toward
self-deception or denial, both 31/4s and 13/4s may discover that
confession is, indeed, good for the soul. By confessing their
sensitive or insecure qualities, 31/4s and 13/4 find they have less to
defend, less to prove, and fewer people they have to impress; this
leads to a greater sense of inner solidity.

Most 31/4s and 13/4s are "salt of the earth," stable, loyal, constant
partners, or they have difficulty staying put or making real emotional
commitments. Even when they say, "I do," they may leave the back door
open. Part of them desires stability and security more than anything,
but part of them resists that very goal because our life purpose
doesn't necessarily come easily. When they see relationship as a
process of ups and downs, entailing learning, maturation, and mutual
support, 31/4s and 13/4s come to appreciate relationship as a
challenging form of spiritual training rather than "the same old
thing."

In the sexual arena, 31/4s and 13/4s need to work through the
"non-sexual" issues of self-doubt, insecurity, and lack of
commitment. Their past experiences of abuse or their subconscious
resistance and physical tension may get in the way of satisfying
sexual expression. However, on the positive side, they tend to be
strong, vital, earthy, and creative lovers,

Talents, Work, and Finances

Due to their array of creative and expressive energies and their sound
analytical abilities, both 31/4s and 13/4s find success in a variety
of careers, often, but not necessarily, centered in some form of
business, advising, or counseling in real estate or
investments. However, they also do well in fields as divergent as
coaching, service to family, architecture, engineering, or any form of
creative communication that supports people. In the positive, their
practical creativity, developed over time, leads to the security they
desire. If they're patient and thorough, one step leads to the
next. But they need to remember that "overnight successes" can take
years—and many small steps—to achieve.
