33/6

6: Vision and Acceptance
3: Expression and Sensitivity
3: Expression and Sensitivity

Understanding Life Purpose

Those on the 33/6 life path are here to work through issues of
perfectionism, emotional expression, and self-doubt in order to bring
forward their inspiring vision of life's possibilities, while
appreciating the innate perfection of the present moment. This world
contains both beauty and ugliness, kindness and cruelty. Those working
33/6 energy, with their high ideals and acute sensitivity, tend to
feel disheartened by the problems and imperfections of the world, but
they suppress their sadness and even their anger as they attempt to
"do the right thing" due to their high standards. Ironically, even
with their depth of emotions, 33/6s can appear cool and unemotional.

When 33/6s displease someone—anyone—even though they may not
acknowledge it, they are troubled by this, because they combine the
emotional needs of 3s with the sensitive conscience of 6s. Therefore,
33/6s need to take care not to let themselves be manipulated in their
desire for approval and their strong social needs to be liked and
respected.

The lives of 33/6s grow brighter when they realize that their visions,
hopes, and high ideals are here to inspire them, not become the
yardstick by which they measure the world. They need to appreciate
that in the world of form, no perfect person, performance, or product
exists; they also need to appreciate and express their vision of the
inherent or higher level of perfection already existing in the world.

Although their basic life purpose is the same as that of other 6s,
33/6s have a distinctly different energy due to the powerful influence
of the double 3. As they do for birth numbers 22/4 and 44/8, double
numbers represent significant strengths and added challenges.

For 33/6s, the double 3 means that inner expression needs to manifest
before outer expressiveness can bloom. Inner expression entails 33/6s
communicating with themselves and getting in touch with their own
inner feelings. This poses a clear challenge for most 33/6s because
their perfectionistic nature tends to fixate on the "best," most ideal
way to feel, to be, and to act; they can 10se touch with the real, not
always "nice," feelings that make up the entire complex of their
personality. Although 33/6s don't rely on denial as much as 42/6s or
24/6s, it may take time and insight work for them to finally accept
their real feelings.

Getting in touch with and accepting their most authentic feelings
opens channels to their subconscious wisdom and intuitions, and
enables them to form and enjoy a more compassionate, empathic bond
with others.

Once 33/6s contact their own feelings, the second 3 involves finding
the courage to express their feelings to others; again, this is
difficult because they are very sensitive to criticism, and they want
to appear in the very best possible light. In some cases, their
standards are so high, they just give up. Expressing their feelings
entails a certain vulnerability and leaves 33/6s open to others. If
they take the risk, they are rewarded with c10ser relationships with
others and with themselves.

Contacting and expressing feelings doesn't end the challenge of double
3 energy because 33/6s are prone to disillusion, disappointment, and
general frustration when life doesn't meet their expectations. Because
of this, they tend to express themselves in the negative, through
complaining, criticizing, gossiping, judging, or name-calling. Of
course, 33/6s then turn around and judge themselves for advertising
their judgments out loud. Such negative expression, however, is
preferable to denial or withholding feelings, as a step in the
direction of self-expression. In the short run, it may be better for
33/6s to express in the negative than to hold in their expression and
not speak at all—at least until they learn to express their feelings
authentically in more positive ways.

Even though many 33/6s feel compelled to complain, judge, condemn, and
otherwise express in the negative, they can develop the skill to
express the same idea honestly in a positive way. It's very important
for 33/6s (or anyone working 3) to realize that anything they express
in negative ways, they can also express in positive ways. The Law of
Choices (p. 328) addresses this key area.

The destiny of 33/6s relies on their cultivating their natural,
high-minded vision of the bigger picture—the ability to see the
inherent beauty, opportunity, and teachings of life's up and
downs. Having cultivated their vision, they need to learn to use their
expressive energies and abilities in the most constructive, uplifting,
even enthusiastic ways.

This doesn't mean denying an injustice or problem or seeing only the
sunny side of life; it means recognizing and accepting all that
happens, whether we like it or not, as fuel for our growth and
learning.

With the double 3 energy, 33/6s have two doses of self-doubt, which
can drag them down because of the weight of their ongoing,
stratospheric standards, unless they recognize that the hurdle for
what it is and deal with it. They can balance their perfectionistic
tendencies by remembering that every incident reflects "the universal
teacher," making every circumstance a perfect opportunity to learn.

Self-doubt and perfectionism comprise the two biggest hurdles for
33/6s. The combination tends to send them on a never-ending quest for
self-improvement; 6s love to improve themselves and everything else,
and the self-doubt of 3s sends them swinging from manic
over-confidence to depressive doubt. Very competitive, they constantly
judge and compare themselves to others to see how they're doing. If
they don't feel like they're doing well enough, they may push
themselves, strive for lofty goals, and reach for perfection. If they
succumb to self-doubt, they may step out of the game, just get by, or
drop out, disheartened and defeated, victim to the logic, "If I don't
try, then I can't really fail." If they stay in the game, however,
they end up doing well because of their inherently bright, sensitive,
and intuitive nature.

Nearly all 33/6s are more interested in goals than in the sometimes
lengthy process necessary to reach them; unlike 4s, who have trouble
tolerating slow, careful steps, 33/6s are willing to go through the
steps, but they want to do it quickly so that they can reach the
ideal, the end product. They see the completed vision before them and
want to achieve it; they want to arrive almost before they've
begun. Like 4s, 33/6s need to apply the Law of Process (p. 346), not
because they're reluctant to go step-by-step, but rather as a reminder
to slow down and enjoy the journey.

Most 33/6s feel a strong need for emotional support and love; even
though many people love and admire them, they may not feel it until
they come to love and accept themselves and to see their own beauty
and light.

Working 33/6 in the Positive

Surrounded by a bright energy field reflecting purity and clarity,
these sensitive individuals have an attractive energy and enthusiastic
way of helping others to see their own perfection and the positive
side of every issue. Their body is strong because they've developed
and refined it through proper exercise and diet. They accept their
shape whether or not it meets anyone else's idea of perfection. They
see the inherent perfection of others, and they have come to accept
themselves; self-evaluation has changed to self-valuation. They always
have a kind word or good thing to say about others. Their laser
eyesight can spot the beauty in anyone or anything; they see the
higher beings we are all becoming. With their high standards and sense
of fairness, they work for justice, right, and truth in constructive
ways.

Working 33/6 in the Negative

Tight-lipped, inhibited outsiders, these individuals have down-turned
corners of their mouth that indicate their disappointment with most
people and their anger and frustration about the world. "It isn't
fair!" is the battle cry of these harsh critics, as they judge the
world against unreachable ideals. They hold in their expression or let
it out in negative tirades and complaints as their laser vision points
out the flaws in everyone and everything. Their body holds tension
within extra fat or extra muscle as body armor to insulate them from a
world that feels burdensome due to their own self-imposed standards.

Life-Path Issues

Health

The source of energy for 33/6s comes from having a cause, an idea, or
an ideal that inspires them. Most have a strong, healthy body, but due
to their sensitivity and depending on their emotional state, they may
sometimes have to deal with sore throats due to unexpressed
feelings. When nervous or pressured by feeling that they "have to do
well," they sometimes experience a "nervous stomach." The stress they
impose upon themselves with their standards can also manifest as
muscular tension, especially in the jaw; as occasional skin rashes; or
even as asthma if the world seems to press in upon them as they try to
meet their own impossibly high standards. If working in the negative
over time, 33/6s may experience chronic illnesses, including colitis,
ulcers, or other abdominal symptoms.

Chronically blocked, suppressed, or unexpressed anger related to
judgments they place on themselves or others can turn to arthritis in
later years, a form of "crystallized anger" in the joints, especially
for those 33/6s who have a cool, controlled exterior.

All of the preceding problems or conditions reflect those working 33/6
energy in the negative; these issues are not inevitable or
necessary. Health conditions can improve significantly once 33/6s (or
people working other birth numbers) learn to ease up and go with the
flow.

Good advice for any 33/6s would be to eat what they feel good about
and feel good about what they eat. Because of the 3 energy, emotions
play an important role in anything they do. They tend to aspire to and
work toward an optimal diet, depending upon their knowledge of
nutrition and their instinctive feel. Although not an issue for most
33/6s, some may be vulnerable to anorexic eating disorders due to a
distorted body image of not being slim enough or not being perfect
enough.

Most 33/6s do well with clear-cut fitness exercises; they naturally
look for the most perfect form of exercise for them, even one that
fills emotional or social needs. Many also enjoy skill training, such
as martial arts, where they can refine and hone skills to
"perfection." Of the top five martial artists I have known, three
happen to work the 33/6 life path.

Relationships

Emotions aren't "reasonable," neat, orderly, or predictable, and 33/6s
may have difficulty letting their hair down and getting wild and
passionate (unless, of course, they're skillful actors like 33/6s
Meryl Streep and Robert DeNiro). Overcoming self-doubt and the fear of
others' opinions may take a little time for 33/6s. Until they are
willing to express their feelings directly—as in "I feel hurt!"—they
tend to stifle upsets to "keep their cool."

When emotions are held back, so are relationships. Those working 33/6
need to realize that their partner or spouse wants to love them, not
somebody with a perfect mask. The more genuine and vulnerable they can
act and the more they can feel, "Here's who I am, the good and the
bad—take it or leave it," the better.

Sexually, many 33/6s feel a distance or inhibition rather than wild
abandon because of their concern with technique or performance— with
"how well they're doing"—rather than with the pure emotional content
of lovemaking. In some cases, if they haven't yet understood their
perfectionistic tendencies, their sexual feelings may diminish due to
repressed anger resulting from judgments about their lover. In the
positive, 33/6s form nurturing, giving relationships, sexual and
otherwise.

Talents, Work, and Finances

Unless they allow self-doubt to stop them, the high standards of 33/6s
make them naturally prone to success, because they do very good work
(even though they don't always feel that way). They have a deep
emotional sensitivity, whether or not they show it and a mind that
focuses and directs a profound intuitive intelligence. To succeed,
however, they need to get a grip on their ideals, stay practical and
realistic, and keep positive.

The desire of 33/6s for precision, along with their expressive and
intuitive abilities, can shine through many different occupations,
such as teaching, training, organizational work, design and
architecture, and illustration. Actors, dancers, and athletes who are
33/6s study their craft deeply; they are consummate
professionals. Many 33/6s make excellent, prolific writers; they excel
at anything having to do with communication, feelings, and
expression. They tend to offer that extra touch and to work
conscientiously toward high standards.

If any problems arise in the financial arena, self-doubt and
perfectionist procrastination probably lie at the source. Whenever
33/6s experience a lack of abundance, this may stem from self-worth
issues— from unrealistically devaluing themselves and being afraid to
step up and let the world know what they're worth. When they come to
know and appreciate themselves—and to express their true emotions—
they also express their joy for life.

Some Weil-Known 33/6s

Fred Astaire                   Mikhail Baryshnikov

Dale Carnegie                Agatha Christie

Albert Einstein                Stephen King

Elisabeth Kubler-Ross     D. H. Lawrence

John McEnroe                Linda Ronstadt

Beverly Sills                   Steven Spielberg

Meryl Streep                  H. G. Wells

Keys to Fulfilling Your Destiny

If you are working 33/6, this section can help you manifest your life purpose by focusing your attention on core issues and by generating specific action to transform key areas of your life.
Guidelines and Recommendations

    Reconnect with your real—not your ideal—feelings.
    Express your feelings, not just your thoughts.
    Acknowledge your sensitivity, and let others see it.
    Appreciate who you and others are right now.

Useful Questions

1.    Reflect on the following questions:

·     How do I use my expressive energy?

·     Do I sometimes feel burdened by self-doubt and overly idealistic
      standards?

·     Can I appreciate who I am right now?

·     Do I let people know how I feel?

