35/8

8: Abundance and Power

5: Freedom and Discipline

3: Expression and Sensitivity

Understanding Life Purpose

Those on the 35/8 life path are here to work through issues of
emotional honesty, independence, and power, manifesting abundance,
authority, and freedom achieved through discipline and depth of
experience. Because our life purpose does not come easily, an inherent
challenge for 35/8s involves the dynamic tension between drives for
wealth, power, and respect and fears of these qualities. This inner
conflict frames the life of 35/8s and manifests in both passive and
aggressive tendencies; they either behave in a subdued, passive
manner, or they act pushy, flamboyant, or even ruthless. One challenge
for 35/8s lies in accepting and integrating the passive and aggressive
parts of their makeup to form a more balanced and authentic self of
acknowledged power and presence.

The life path of 35/8s unfolds in the world of action and
influence. Their capacities and genius lie in the areas of authority,
leadership, and responsibility. Unless they are inhibited by
unconscious fears of their own power, 35/8s can be very dramatic, even
ostentatious or flamboyant. When they make a lot of money, they know
how to spend it with class.

Wealth, power, and respect fascinate or even preoccupy 35/8s the way a
weapon might fascinate a child who is attracted to it but avoids it
for fear of doing harm. With their underlying ruthless drive for
success, despite their mild exterior, 35/8s have a repressed power
that can at times make other people uncomfortable even though they
don't know why; this power sometimes frightens 35/8s themselves.

The Law of Higher Will (p. 381) can serve to remind 35/8s of their
higher purpose and open the way for them to clear subconscious fears
and associated tendencies to sabotage themselves. Such self-sabotage
can take the form of having physical accidents, alienating other
people, "forgetting" to renew their health or fire insurance, arriving
at appointments chronically late, or 10sing money in speculation or
gambling. Self-sabotage ends when, they establish a heartfelt
commitment to service.

Before 35/8s can truly serve, however, they have to dedicate and use
their success for the common good. They need to begin from an
assumption of inner power, freedom, and abundance, rather than from a
state of need or dependence. In other words, 35/8s experience wealth
when they start out feeling their abundance by counting their
blessings right now; this gratitude attracts more blessings.

The key to resolution for 35/8s lies not in pursuing or avoiding
wealth or power for their own sakes, but in manifesting them in the
course of providing a valuable service in the world. In fact, 35/8s
benefit from visualizing themselves making good money, doing what they
enjoy, while serving other people—with the emphasis on service. Such
visual images help to attract the support of a reluctant or fearful
subconscious.

Volunteer work or any gesture of selfless service also helps 35/8s to
overcome subconscious resistance and self-sabotage. As they come to
feel more deserving, they get out of their own way. Since most 35/8s
don't tend to give unless they expect to get something back, selfless
service can provide powerful leverage for change.

Those working 35/8 share the same life purpose as other 8s, but the
influence of 3 and 5 creates very different strengths and hurdles on
the path to positive fulfillment of their destiny.

With the quick wit and versatility of 5 come strong issues around
discipline; 35/8s have intense ambitions but may not appreciate or be
willing to do the work necessary to achieve these goals. Their
ambitions outstrip their discipline; they sometimes wait for their
ship to come before they've sent one out.

The positive impact of a healthy discipline and focus in their life
cannot be overestimated. Discipline leads to personal power and
self-control (rather than attempts to control others). When 35/8s
practice discipline in their life, they do the work necessary to
manifest success. Although they have a steep climb up the mountain,
because what we're here to do doesn't come easiest, the rewards are
significant, both personally and in terms of their potential
contribution to the world.

Even if they are willing to work hard, many 35/8s get scattered trying
to do too much, diluting their efforts by pursuing too many
opportunities. Discipline in the form of focus responds to and
balances this scattering tendency and amplifies their effectiveness.

These individuals also need to balance a tendency to swing from
extreme dependence when feeling passivity or self-doubt to extreme
independence when feeling aggressive; they do this by forming
balanced, mutually supportive, interdependent relationships in their
personal and professional lives.

If 35/8s get stuck in neediness, they tend, almost out of desperation,
to use others in their world as means for advancement or learning that
may lead to their liberation. When they shift this attitude and see
everyone and every situation as an opportunity to serve and share
themselves, their life makes a corresponding shift.

With the influence of 3 energy, 35/8s can feel inhibited about
expressing their feelings, especially ones that aren't "nice." This
inhibition may manifest, as it does for others working 3, in their
talking abstractly or in their not sharing much at all unless someone
draws them out. The 3 can also signal a tendency to manipulate or
strategize to get what they want without stating their desires
directly.

The Law of Honesty (p. 377) applies to 35/8s both in terms of direct
and honest expression and also in terms of following the law; 35/8s do
best when they follow the highest ethics in business and personal
relationships. At first this may seem to go against the grain because
they generally don't want to be bound or tied down to conventions;
they are used to making the rules, not following them.

The more 35/8s freely share their money, power, freedom, and sensitive
heart, the more they get back from the world; the more expansive they
are, the more their abundance expands. The fulfillment of their
destiny lies not in 35/8s' awesome mental capacity, but in their
capacity to love and sacrifice. Their life path comes to fruition not
merely through achieving wealth or power, but through using money and
power in self-transcending service to the world.

Working 35/8 in the Positive

These individuals have achieved a sense of inner abundance and power
through inner discipline, and many blessings have appeared in their
life—blessings of abundance they share generously and wisely through
their high intelligence and expressive abilities. Others view them as
powerful leaders due to their powerful mind, their ability to see the
bigger picture, and their genius at getting things done. Emotionally
open and vulnerable, they know when to stand their ground and when to
let go. These self-made people have a generous, philanthropic nature,
taking on positions of leadership and authority. Their relationships
are open and mutually supportive.

Working 35/8 in the Negative

People fear these individuals without knowing why. Their drive for
success, along with dependent feelings and self-doubt, lead them to a
tendency toward opportunism as they seek to obtain from others the
power and support they haven't found within. They tend to express and
control indirectly, through manipulation. They desire wealth and
power, but they lack the necessary focus or discipline and tend to
sabotage their own efforts because of their inner conflicts. Feeling
bad about themselves and powerless and frustrated over their
circumstances, they have difficulties with lasting relationships,
which degenerate into struggles for control or alternate between
aggressive independence and extreme dependence and neediness.

Life-Path Issues

Health

Generally, 35/8s have strong constitutions. However, when they spread
themselves too thin, driven by scattered ambitions, they face burnout
and possible injuries due to distraction, ignoring traffic laws, or
self-sabotage. All 35/8s should wear seat belts and avoid high-risk
activities, especially in their late twenties. The preceding problems
occur less frequently when 35/8s focus their energies, balance hard
work with rest, and commit themselves to working for a higher purpose,
thus minimizing the tendency toward self-sabotage.

If 35/8s make work their god, dietary discipline or refinement may take a back seat. Generally, 35/8s' keen intelligence leads them to make informed dietary choices. They are wise to treat food as a medicine for optimal functioning. Like most people without specific dietary needs, a balanced, low-fat, primarily vegetarian diet is optimal. How 35/8s eat is nearly as important as what they eat, and their biggest dietary challenge is moderation, since they may overcontrol or undercontrol in this area.

Depending upon their values, background, and lifestyle, 35/8s may or
may not make exercise a priority in their life, but they are well
suited to forms of exercise that bring a feeling of personal power,
such as martial arts, weight training, and individual sports.

Relationships

In many cases, 35/8s have difficulty sustaining long-term
relationships until they are thirty or forty years old; before that
time, they tend to fall into power struggles. If their passive and
aggressive tendencies haven't yet found a balance, they experience
subtle or not-so-subtle control issues in their relationships, as well
as issues concerning dependence and independence. On the positive
side, 35/8s can be exceptionally attentive and enjoyable to be with,
and as they begin working their powerful combination of energies in
the positive, they are able to sustain happy, passionate, mutually
supportive relationships.

Although 35/8s can be dedicated parents and loving partners, their
work is almost always the center of their lives, and it helps if they
find self-sufficient partners who understand their dedication to their
work from the outset.

Many 35/8s bring the emotional sensitivity and self-doubt of 3 energy
into their relationships. At the same time, their blend of a powerful,
versatile mind and wit, along with sensitivity and a strong drive for
success, leads them to connect with friends and lovers on many
levels. In the highest sense, 35/8s can form lasting bonds based on
mutual sharing, mutual sacrifice, and mutual generosity of
spirit. Their sexual expression reflects this energy.

Talents, Work, and Finances

These individuals are here to use their powerful mind, often bordering
on genius, to create wealth through service, to step forward in
positions of benign leadership and authority in their family, in their
community, or, for example, in the arenas of industry or
politics. These individuals make excellent inventors, innovators, or
writers; they excel in any field in which a brilliant and curious mind
has free reign. In one of the highest aspects of their life path,
35/8s may assume the role of a philanthropist, generously sharing
their wealth and influence in service of a humanitarian cause.

Financial issues always have significance for 35/8s, on whatever
scale, since money is one of the central themes of their life
path. Most commonly, 35/8s pull themselves up by their own bootstraps;
among them are many self-made millionaires. If they start out wealthy,
they have to learn to use their money and influence wisely and with
compassion.

Some Weil-Known 35/8s

Melvin Belli             Ingrid Bergman

James Cagney         Edgar Cayce

Jack Dempsey         Buddy Holly

Bob Newhart           Norman Vincent Peale

Mary Pickford         Upton Sinclair

Oliver Stone            Mary Shelley Wollstonecraft

Keys to Fulfilling Your Destiny

If you are working 35/8, this section can help you manifest your life
purpose by focusing your attention on core issues and by generating
specific action to transform key areas of your life.

Guidelines and Recommendations

Combine your brilliance with hard work to find success.
Own your power, but remember your heart.
Visualize and then put into practice the good you would like to do for others.
Find a focus; keep it practical and grounded.

Useful Questions

1.       Reflect on the following questions:

·        Have I done the focused work necessary to achieve abundance
         in my life? 

·        Have I found abundance and power within?

·        Do I uphold the highest ethical standards in my business
         agreements and personal life? 

·        Do I freely share my feelings with others?

2.       If these questions generate any insights, how might you put
         these insights into practice? 

Deepening Your Understanding

1.      Turn to Part Two and reread the main sections covering the
digits that make up your birth number; 3 (p. 45), 5 (p. 61), and 8
(p. 87). 

2.      You may wish to review birth numbers of family and friends and, if they are open to it, discuss similar or different issues in your lives.

Spiritual Laws: The Leverage to Change Your Life

1.      Read about each of the following laws in Part Four:

·         The Law of Higher Will (p. 381): Our willingness to serve a higher purpose can inspire us to inspire others.

·         The Law of Honesty (p. 377): To be honest with others, we first have to be honest with ourselves.

·         The Law of Discipline (p. 354): Discipline brings the focus and depth of experience that leads to inner freedom.

·         The Law of Balance (p. 341): Seeing our tendency to swing from one extreme to another, we find our balance.

·         The Law of Action (p. 390): To overcome self-doubt, we need to accept feelings but act with confidence,

2.      Do the exercises you find for each of these laws.

3.      Consider how you might apply each law to your life.
