37/10

10: Creativity and Confidence With Inner Gifts
7: Trust and Openness
3: Expression and Sensitivity
Understanding Life Purpose

Those on the 37/10 life path are here to work through issues of
creativity while learning to trust the wise and beautiful spirit in
themselves and others, and to apply their inner gifts to create more
harmony in the world. These individuals sometimes fulfill their life
path in the world at large, as did famous 37/10s Jean Renoir, Aldous
Huxley, and Leo Tolstoy, but lesser-known 37/10s can fulfill their
destiny equally well within a circle of friends or a smaller
community. However, since our life purpose rarely comes easily, 37/10s
may take time to open up and trust themselves or the process of their
life. They have a sensitive, private disposition and must overcome
deeply rooted insecurity.

Using the method outlined in this book for determining birth numbers,
we do not add together the final two digits of four-digit birth
numbers. However, if we did add them together (1 + 0), we would end up
with a 37/10/1, underscoring the potential influence of double
creative energy (1) intensified by the inner gifts of sensitivity,
expressiveness, strength, and intuition (0).

A sense of trust is important and useful for all of us, but for
37/10s, it becomes the touchstone of life. Due to a lack of
self-trust, most 37/10s seek knowledge outside of themselves rather
than trusting their intuitive depths.

To the degree that 37/1 Os subconsciously expect betrayal, they
encounter betrayal in others and in the world. Many 37/10s learn
useful lessons about the human foibles of spiritual teachers and the
importance of trusting their own "inner knower."

When they recognize that they helped create the drama of past
betrayals, 37/10s learn to appreciate the roles played by others, for
their long-range evolution, whether intentional or not. They may not
feel grateful to the specific individuals who broke a trust, but these
37/1 Os feel gratitude to a larger Spirit for their new awareness as a
result of their experience.

As 37/10s apply the Law of Expectations (p. 373) and come to recognize
the power of their hidden expectations, they change their assumptions;
in doing so, they change thek life. They no longer need to encounter
betrayal in the external world because they have learned to trust the
larger process of their life.

All 37/10s, deep down, are wise and healing spirits; they can express
themselves like angels in human form once they align themselves with
the higher energy and will that manifest within them. These sensitive,
refined individuals need to maintain a balanced, moderate lifestyle
that includes inner work, such as contemplation or meditation, to
create a safe, peaceful space in which they can feel nourished and
refreshed.

As they come to discover their essential connection to the mystery and
beauty of existence, they realize that whatever has happened to them,
whether they call it good or bad, easy or difficult, pleasurable or
painful, has served their highest good and learning.

Working 37/10 in the Positive

In the positive, 37/10s bring a lightness and energy to those they
contact. Trusting themselves and the energy working through them, they
walk forward confidently and lightly, with the faith that even if they
make a mistake, it's a natural part of their path. They have the
courage and openness to express thek deepest feelings and communicate
thek inner needs directly and clearly, creating trust based on
understanding. They feel joy in their expanding gifts and creativity,
which enables them to do refined work in healing or other fields as
they tune into other people and feel a deepening connection with the
natural world. This healing may take many forms, such as art, music,
drama, or other aesthetic forms of expression.

Working 37/10 in the Negative

Starting out as naively trusting seekers, these individuals withdraw
from others out of insecurity and fear of being embarrassed, so the
very betrayal they fear comes true. Not revealing their feelings, they
find or perceive that people misunderstand or even mistrust
them. Angry or depressed with themselves, they have disturbing dreams,
which reveal the shadow side they fear. They also feel repressed
bitterness about relationships, and they struggle with blocked,
frustrated creative energies. Physical maladies may force them to
confront issues of health.

Life-Path Issues

Health

Nearly all 37/1 Os have a sensitive, refined physical nature with a
delicate energy field. The base of the spine and the reproductive
organs, along with the solar plexus, can be sensitive areas due to the
sexual/creative energy of 37/10s. Their heart and knees may be
sensitive as well. Whether male or female, these individuals need to
be especially conscious of taking responsible precautions to avoid
unwanted pregnancy, since they are more likely than many others to
have problems in this area.

As it does with other natural but reluctant or insecure healers, life
may deliver physical problems so that 37/10s can learn about a variety
of healing modalities. Such 37/10s often experience this learning as a
refresher course, because their subconscious is already well versed in
energetic healing arts.

To open and support their intuitive capacities and sensitivities,
37/10s benefit from a light, primarily vegetarian diet, although they
may choose to add occasional fish or poultry in order to stay
grounded. Otherwise, they thrive on a simple, pleasurable diet based
on sound health principles.

When insecurity blocks their creativity, 37/10s can fall into
self-destructive patterns, such as abuse of drugs, food, or sex. With
their sensitivities, they don't tolerate abuse of anything very well
or very long.

Those working 37/10 need regular, moderate exercise or some form of
refined physical training, such as dance, t'ai chi, yoga, or swimming,
to keep energy channels open and flowing. They need to trust that
whatever they enjoy is perfect for them. Again, as with others working
1, the main function of exercise is to ground their energy so that it
doesn't demand release through less constructive channels, such as
addictive behavior.

Relationships

Like most people working 7 in their birth number, 37/10s tend to trust
their mind over their heart, because the heart and feelings are
associated with pain and mistrust due to perceived betrayals.

Potentially, 37/10s have a deep connection to the love and wisdom of
their heart, but to actualize this connection they have to stop hiding
inside their mind's defenses and learn to trust their feelings, even
if these feelings sometimes involve pain.

Many 37/1 Os would rather listen than talk because they're afraid they
might say the wrong thing. They prefer privacy to company, yet they
feel they need to bond with someone. Because of insecurity, however,
37/10s often expect a great deal of love without giving much back, and
they may tend to rely on other people for strength. They often depend
on a mate to make them feel complete or a job to fulfill them, relying
on outside influences. In this way, they resemble 28/10s, but while
28/10s have more issues with control, 37/10s are looking for
substitute parents to take care of them, because they often feel
unsure about taking care of themselves. They have mixed feelings about
relationships with others; this ambivalence reflects their uncertain
relationship with themselves.

Sexuality and relationship depend on openness and trust to
flourish. The sexual life of 37/10s feels more fulfilling when it is
tied to transcending the body rather than just physical release. Many
37/10s may find that a sexuality workshop aimed at emotional sharing
or even the practice of tantra yoga, a form of deep communion through
sexual energy in relationship, may open new doors to intimacy and
meaning.

Once 37/10s open enough to express their feelings and needs and learn
to trust their partner, their relationships flourish.

Talents, Work, and Finances

This is a sensitive, highly artistic pattern; 37/10s work with and are
inspired by beauty and nature. Nearly all 37/10s find emotional
healing and connection through music. They also display great ability
to express themselves through art, acting, poetry, dancing,
photography, design, and any other form of creative expression,
including teaching.
