40/4

4: Stability and Process

40: Stability and Process With Inner Gifts

Understanding Life Purpose

Those on the 40/4 life path are here to establish secure foundations
in their life by following a gradual process to their goals, applying
their inner gifts in a spirit of service on behalf of people or causes
they value. Like 20/2s and 30/3s, 4014s have a very focused life
purpose, undiluted by other numbers and energies. Because our central
purpose rarely comes easily, many 4014s may have trouble feeling
grounded or following a long, sometimes arduous process to reach their
goals. They may skip or ignore necessary steps, or feel stuck in
situations that no longer work.

Individuals working 40/4 need to develop a pattern of success by
making short-term commitments and following through, gradually
expanding the time frame until long-term commitments become
feasible. In the same manner, by breaking down big goals and plans
into small steps and focusing on completing one step before going to
the next, 40/4s create an inner foundation and process that supports
them throughout their life.

When working in the positive, 40/4s combine a superb analytical
ability with their inner gifts of profound strength and persistence;
sensitivity, which balances their strength; expressiveness; and clear
intuition. When 40/4s free themselves from analytical loops and trust
their gut feelings, they can make inspired, practical, and even
brilliant decisions. Their sensitivity and strength act as powerful,
synergistic allies— combining the grace of a ballet dancer with the
strength of a bull. However, when stuck in overanalysis, they end up
feeling confused and disoriented.

Although 20/2s and 40/4s have many similar strengths, tendencies, and
issues, 20/2s deal more with issues of responsibility, internal
balance, and cooperation; with 40/4s, a stable foundation and a clear,
step-by-step process stand paramount. Once 40/4s ground their energy
in practical ways, they can apply their refined intuition to support
others and to experience more clarity and fun in life.

All 40/4s have the potential of bringing forth their rich resources,
indicated by the zero in their birth number, but they can only develop
their gifts through a process of preparation and practice, which may
include some form of schooling.

Like all 4s, 40/4s don't tend to enjoy slow, patient progress; more
often, what's in the distance feels too far away and they want it now,
or the path to their goals feels confusing. It's especially important
for 40/4s to trust their gut feelings (physically based intuition)
when making decisions, rather than trying to figure out and weigh
everything in their heads, where they go in circles.

Due to an exceptionally strong sense of responsibility that sometimes
extends far beyond appropriate boundaries, 40/4s tend to think in
terms of what they "should" do rather than what they really
desire. Like all 4s, 40/4s can also project "shoulds" on other people.

Most 40/4s are even more stubborn than 20/2s (who have less confusion
between mind and emotions). Because of their stubbornness, 40/4s don't
want to change, adapt, or move. Life may have to provide hard lessons
before they get the message.

Nearly all 40/4s have a hard time letting go of old relationships,
past decisions, or prior events—and letting go of the past, in
general. Therefore, they can suffer from regrets: "If only I had said
something." They need to observe this tendency and the pain it brings
and come to a point of faith, or trust, in their process; whatever
decisions they have made have taught them and brought them to where
they now stand.

The Law of Process (p. 346) serves as one key toward the fulfillment
of 40/4s' destiny: First things first, lay the groundwork, and then
take one step at a time. The ultimate success or failure of 40/4s in
business, relationships, or other areas of life depends largely upon
whether or not they follow the Law of Process and, secondarily, the
Law of Patterns (p. 349).

Like 22/4s and 20/2s, 40/4s tend to bounce from overanalysis to
emotional impulsiveness or hysteria, and they need to balance and
integrate mind and emotions. When 40/4s combine their powerful
analytical ability with their intuition, they demonstrate unusual
clarity and foresight.

Working 40/4 in the Positive

These individuals prepare thoroughly for any task, and they patiently
follow a step-by-step process to reach their goals. They can be
counted on to follow through with any commitment, and others perceive
them as stable and trustworthy friends and advisers. When making
decisions, they consider and analyze their options and also trust
their gut feelings. They have worked out any family issues to create
the best relationship with parents that is feasible. These 40/4s
display exceptional fortitude, but they also make use of their subtle
gifts and intuition. They persist through hardships and obstacles, no
matter how long it takes, and they remain flexible if they reach an
impasse. They have created a stable home situation. Relying on
intuition and faith, they eventually find the situations and
opportunities to suit their interests and abilities.

Working 40/4 in the Negative

These individuals don't trust their intuition, and thus they find
decision making a stressful, confusing exercise. Stuck in the mind's
never-ending analyses, they go in circles trying to answer questions
such as "How can I make things happen?" They end up making impulsive
decisions they later regret. Their relationships tend to be unstable
and short-lived. They have trouble with commitment or staying put with
anyone or anything for very long, so they repeat the same patterns of
hello-goodbye. Their stubbornness and unyielding views get in the way
of the compromise inherent in any relationship. Impulsive and
self-deceiving, they tend to start and stop a task without completing
it.

Life-Path Issues

Health

Although 40/4s are usually sturdy and resistant to illness (and
practically everything else), they may have problems with their hips,
thighs, knees, ankles, or feet—the foundation of their body. Physical
constipation often indicates repressed drives and desires, as when
they do what they think they "should" do rather than listening to
their intuition. Like 20/2s, they may have allergies, but they are
more likely than 20/2s tosuffer accidents arising out of impatience or
impulsive action. Many 40/4s also have congenital problems or physical
issues stemming from childhood.

Their body tends to be either stocky or very long. Many 40/4s put on
weight easily, so a low-fat, even completely vegetarian diet, along
with aerobic exercise, generally works well for them. Especially
useful are forms of exercise that counterbalance 40/4s' strength with
stretching and relaxation, such as yoga, dance, aikido, t'ai chi, or
other martial arts.

Relationships

In the negative, 40/4s, like 20/2s, can appear pushy, meddling, bossy,
or controlling, when actually they just feel overly responsible for
everyone in their universe. They can also have trouble with
stability. In the positive, they're as stable and supportive as the
Rock of Gibraltar. They also have a strong, even if sometimes
subconscious, attraction to raising families. They may bring tensions
or energy blocks to their sexual relationship, but yoga or stretching
and relaxation exercises help them open up and enjoy the sexual
aspects of their nature. The more 40/4s get "out of their head"—"10se
their mind and come to their senses," as Timothy Leary put it—the
better their relationships.

Talents, Work, and Finances

Due to their excellent analytical skills and intuition as well as to
their inherent need for secure foundations, 40/4s do well in any form
of business. They may feel confused when making their own decisions,
but they make excellent advisers, organizers, financiers, or real
estate counselors. They feel most satisfied when their business
actively helps or supports other people. Service oriented, they do
well as care givers in the fields of nursing or social work, for
example, but they also can excel in other fields, including sports and
athletics—wherever qualities of persistence, strength, sensitivity,
and analytical abilities apply. As long as they follow the Law of
Process (p. 346) and use their energy in practical ways, 40/4s find
success.
