21/3 & 12/3

3: Expression and Sensitivity

1: Creativity and Confidence

2: Cooperation and Balance

Understanding Life Purpose

Those on the 21/3 or 12/3 life path are here to work through issues of
creativity, emotional expression, balance, and cooperation in support
of people or causes, applying their energy in positive, constructive
ways to teach, uplift, and inspire. To face the inevitable challenges
of their life path, 21/3s and 12/3s need courage to overcome the
insecurity and self-doubt that may hinder them and need to learn to
channel their creative and emotional energies in positive
ways. Otherwise, when burdened by doubt or feeling insecure, they may
tend to discharge their energies in self-destructive ways, through
alcohol, tobacco, or other drugs. If 21/3s or 12/3s suppress their
emotional expression, they experience that suppression in their body
as physical tension or a variety of other symptoms.

Those working 21/3 or 12/3 are among the most well-rounded, versatile,
creative people on Earth. With the 2 providing support and strength,
both 21/3s and 12/3s can invent, innovate, synthesize, or package
impressive works in any field of endeavor. They can express their
creativity through any form or material, and the spirit of their
message still comes through.

With the first two numbers (1 and 2) in different order, for 21/3s,
creativity issues (1) are more pressing, whereas for 12/3s,
cooperation (2) issues predominate, due to these numbers' relative
position and influence. Both 21/3s and 12/3s, however, share the same
primary issues of sensitivity, self-doubt, and emotional expression so
focused in 30/3s. By virtue of their life purpose, they face issues of
negative expression, such as criticizing and complaining. In most
cases, they express in negative ways when their feelings are hurt.

Even though 2113s and 12/3s have a high degree of emotional
sensitivity, they have a strong tendency to intelkctualize their
emotions rather than express their sensitive, and rather insecure,
natures. They respond to the feelings of insecurity associated with
creative energy either by appearing insecure or, far more often, by
developing a courageous but false compensatory persona of dry
intellectualism or an overconfident, outgoing bravado to veil a
sensitive self, struggling with self-doubt.

In 12/3s, 2 issues predominate over 1 issues; although slightly less
insecure, 12/3s have stronger issues with finding a balance between
giving "too much" and then shutting down. Most 21/3s tend toward
emotional neediness; they need to focus on letting their emotions flow
out to others, as they tend toward emotional "stinginess" and
withholding.

The destiny of both 21/3s and 12/3 involves expressing themselves in
their chosen way positively and honestly. When they are dishonest,
their dishonesty usually entails holding back their true or authentic
feelings rather than outright lying or deceit. They achieve expressive
honesty by confronting and revealing their own emotional nature,
integrating the sensitive parts of themselves that they have disowned
for fear of appearing too weak or needy. Because they feed off
emotional connections, they can, indeed, be needy, but they are
certainly not weak.

Although they have internal strength and endurance associated with 2,
most 21/3s and 12/3s, like most 30/3s, have very sensitive emotional
energy fields as well as creative energy that needs to be moved into
the world. They tend to be more constricted than 30/3s, and their
sensitive, emotional nature is not as easy to see as that of
30/3s. Instead of intellectualizing their emotions, 21/3s and 12/3s
need to show and express their fears, their anger, their hurt, and
their joy, becoming emotionally present and real. When they do, their
bodies also open up, relax, and rejuvenate.

As they discard their false personas, lay their emotional cards on the
table, and show their insecurities and vulnerable feelings openly,
21/3s and 12/3s find, to their surprise, a deeper, richer, more
nourishing emotional bond with others and with themselves.

Such self-revelation is no small task. Before they can open up, they
have to overcome deep-seated fears of rejection, self-doubt, and
insecurity. The Law of Action (p. 390) is key in clearing shadows from
the subconscious, such as their fear of exploding with anger or
collapsing with sorrow, which stifles emotional expression. With time
and experience, 21/3s and 12/3s develop genuine confidence instead of
false bravado and exhibit emotional generosity, which flows out to
those around them.  Working 21/3 or 12/3 in the Positive

These individuals do brilliant and sensitive work; they include some of the most creative people on the planet. Their body is relaxed, supple, and relatively free of tension because they express their feelings as they arise, honestly and openly, rather than storing them as neu-romuscular tensions. They breathe deeply and easily. Their relationships thrive on honesty and emotional acceptance; when problems arise, they talk those problems over and resolve them. These individuals feel genuine pleasure in uplifting others through their caring words, whether through teaching, acting, singing, writing, or working in a grocery store. The occupation doesn't matter, as long as they have opportunities to reach out to people and build emotional bridges.
Working 21/3 or 12/3 in the Negative

These hypersensitive individuals give mixed messages; they act
confident and then collapse under the weight of criticism. They come
back with cutting remarks and hurt back or withdraw, all without
revealing their authentic feelings. Over time, their physical tension
and lack of suppleness reflect the degree of emotion they are
suppressing. Filled with self-doubt and stifled emotions, insecurity
and blocked creativity, stubbornness and reactivity, they fool no one
but themselves.

Life-Path Issues

Health

This is one of the physically strongest patterns, with the vigor of 2
and the energy of 1. Like 30/3s, both 21/3s and 12/3s have sensitive
throat regions and may experience occasional flare-ups when their
expression is blocked; if this condition is chronic, they may
eventually require surgery. If their creative energies are blocked or
suppressed, they may encounter issues in the lower abdomen or
reproductive areas—for example, stomach problems, hernias, or
difficulties with the ovaries in women or prostate in men.

Generally, however, 21/3s and 12/3s are physically strong and
robust. If they repress their feelings, this is like corking up a
volcano; their body feels the effects of stopping up the energy that
is meant to flow freely. As long as they pay attention to expressing
thek creative energy in the positive and keeping their emotions open
and flowing, both 21/3s and 12/3s enjoy exceptional health. When they
do need healing, they do best to combine whatever treatment they get
with some form of emotional healing. Listening to emotional music or
even going to emotional movies gives these sensitive, creative people
a chance to express themselves. If they can't even cry at the movies,
they definitely need to explore the ways they are blocking expression.

For 21/3s and 12/3s, excess weight usually reflects blocked
creativity. A two-faceted program of balanced exercise and a creative
hobby can bring their body to optimal balance. For these individuals,
exercise is a good way to clear suppressed emotions. Because of their
creative, emotional nature, 21/3s and 12/3s feel attuned to nature and
music, which soothe their sensitive character. Listening to music and
taking walks outdoors can help them heal and recharge on emotional and
physical levels.

Relationships

The key to relationships for 21/3s and 12/3s entails a willingness to
"10se face" and find themselves by expressing what they feel, in the
moment.They benefit from asking themselves periodically during the
day, "How do I really feel right now?" Once they tune in to how
they're feeling, it's important that they express these feelings in
some way— not just the safe, "okay" feelings, but also anger,
impatience, shame, embarrassment, jealousy, and competitiveness. This
practice begins a process of emotional awakening and physical
rejuvenation.

Both 12/3s and especially 21/3s often experience a masked form of insecurity in their relationships. For example, they may flirt to see if others still find them attractive, or they may feel or act competitive with their partner for fear of falling into a subordinate position.

When they're doing creative work, 21/3s and, to a lesser degree, 12/3s may have little time or energy for relationships. Because 21/3s and 12/3s sometimes block emotionally charged negative feelings, such as anger or sorrow, they sometimes withdraw emotionally. The wall they build also keeps out the positive feelings of love, affection, and passion. They may need to take part in some good arguments during which they stay emotionally and physically present. Such an outlet of expression can bring back old passions. The core of a strong relationship for 21/3s and 12/3s is emotional contact, even if this means passionate arguments.

The 2 means that those on both of these similar life paths need to find a balance of giving and receiving so that they don't overgive, only to withdraw resentfully later on. The Law of Balance (p. 341), which deals with giving and receiving, is key here.
Talents, Work, and Finances

Both 21/3s and 12/3s display a strong combination of creative and expressive energy for writing, designing, speaking, debating, advising, promoting, or engaging in any creative field. Although they are extremely versatile, 21/3s and 12/3s are happiest when expressing and creating while supporting and uplifting others.

No matter what their work, 21/3s and 12/3s generally confront some self-doubt and insecurity. With persistence, they earn positive feedback and support from others, and their confidence grows.

The well-rounded energies of 21/3s and 12/3s make for useful, innovative work. When they get past the double hurdles of self-doubt and insecurity and let their feelings and creative juices flow, so will their finances.
Some Well-Known 21/3s and 12/3s

21/3s

Hans Christian Andersen   Judy Garland

Louis Armstrong               Robert F. Kennedy

Yul Bryner                        Vivian Leigh

Maria Callas                     Margaret Mead

Bing Crosby                      Thomas Merton

Salvador Dali                    Sugar Ray Robinson

Charles Dickens                George Sand

12/3s

Helen Hayes

Keys to Fulfilling Your Destiny

If you are working 21/3 or 12/3, this section can help you manifest your life purpose by focusing your attention on core issues and by generating specific action to transform key areas of your life.

Guidelines and Recommendations

    If you want to remain supple and healthy, express your feelings.
    Exercise to release pent-up emotional and creative energies.
    Remember and visualize your strongest qualities.
    Make authenticity—showing what you really feel—a priority.

Useful Questions

1.       Reflect on the following questions:

·         Do I fully appreciate my creative abilities?

·         Do I move from overconfidence to self-doubt?

·         Do I intellectualize my feelings, or do I let people know how I really feel inside?

·         What does my body reveal about how I'm using my creative energy?

2.       If these questions generate any insights, how might you put these insights into practice?

Deepening Your Understanding

1.      Turn to Part Two and reread the main sections covering the digits that make up your birth number: 1 (p. 31) and 2 (p. 38), and 3 (p. 45).

2.      You may wish to review birth numbers of family and friends and if they are open to it, discuss similar or different issues in your lives

Spiritual Laws: The Leverage to Change Your Life

1.      Read about each of the following laws in Part Four:

·         The Law of Honesty (p. 377): Recognizing and expressing our feelings is a primary form of honesty.

·         The Law of Faith (p. 369): Only when we find faith in ourselves can we have faith in others.

·         The Law of Choices (p. 328): We can choose to express our creative energies in positive or negative ways.

·         The Law of Balance (p. 341): Seeing our tendency to swin from one extreme to another, we find our balance point.

·         The Law of Responsibility (p. 336): We find joy in service by learning when to say yes and how to say no.

2.      Do the exercises you find for each of these laws.

3.      Consider how you might apply each law to your life.

4: Stability and Process

Life is a dance if you take the steps: one step, then another.

