15/6

6: Vision and Acceptance

5: Freedom and Discipline

1: Creativity and Confidence

Understanding Life Purpose

Those on the 15/6 life path are here to work through issues involving
idealism, independence, and creative energy, finding creative ways to
uplift others by first accepting themselves, then sharing their vision
with others. Since our life purpose involves challenges, 15/6s
confront and have to overcome hurdles of perfectionism, dependence,
and an underlying insecurity before they can realize and share their
larger vision of possibilities.

This higher vision may cause 15/6s to reject their present reality,
but only through acceptance do 15/6s incorporate, embrace, and include
all experiences into their understanding and build the necessary
bridges between what is and what may be. They may write or dream, lead
or follow; they may sing of bygone days or of future possibilities,
but only in focusing their creative energies, do 15/6s bring heaven to
earth. High ideals are fine, but 15/6s have to ground them in reality
if they are to make a difference in the world.

Those working 15/6 don't have to find freedom or high ideals; rather,
they create them. They are originators, innovators, and visionaries of
the highest degree. Nearly all 15/6s feel a very strong sense of
service, as if they are here on a mission.

Questions such as "What is the ideal?" and "What is authentic
freedom?" constantly reverberate within 15/6s as they search for the
conclusive experience, the deep and the lofty. Unless they stay
grounded, 15/6s tend to create and live in an idealized world of their
own, as writers of fantasy and science fiction sometimes do. Isaac
Asimov, a 15/6, demonstrated how to create his own worlds in the most
constructive way. Others may simply be dreamers who live in castles of
their imagination, only occasionally returning to everyday life on
planet Earth.

The usual hurdles related to 6s, such as perfectionistic standards, a
tendency toward judging self and others against these standards, and
low self-worth, confront 15/6s on the path up the mountain. The
quick-minded orientation toward freedom and experience of 6 energy
strongly influences 15/6s, who seek with a deep longing to experience
the more perfect life they envision, a better world of perfect
justice.

Because of the 5 energy, 15/6s need a practical focus—something
constructive to do with their high standards. Without a direction,
outlet, or goal, they can wander aimlessly in dream worlds; with a
clear direction, they open doors to the future and point to pur
highest potential as did the writers Isaac Asimov and Jules Verne.

But for all the high-minded, creative, freedom-oriented individuals
born to this life path, others have struggled with insecure, blocked
energies. Such 15/6s often feel scattered, directionless, trapped, or
constantly disappointed; they pursue escapist activities, from reading
literature about Utopian societies to seeking out self-destructive
drug hallucinations.

Along with 5 issues, including the absolute need for discipline, 15/6s
have the abundant creative energy of 1, which transforms ideals and
visions into some kind of form. For 15/6 Christopher Columbus, the
vision was a new land across the uncharted regions of the ocean. For
another 15/6, Joan of Arc, the vision was becoming God's knight of
peace.

The drives of 15/6s blend energies of creativity, liberation, justice,
and a longing for perfection and form one of the most distinctive,
high-minded life paths this century.

Working 15/6 in the Positive

Inspired and uplifting, these individuals reveal visions of new
possibilities and a brighter future. As high-minded strategists,
through focus and discipline they apply their active creative energies
to awakening people from the mundane into the more sublime, more
peaceful, liberated beings that they really are. At their best, these
creative visionaries embody and channel the very force of human
evolution to help change their world and themselves. Accepting
themselves and others, they work with patience to convey positive laws
of living through their work. They show the way to perfect freedom.

Working 15/6 in the Negative

Picky, judgmental, and disappointed with life, these individuals
search high and low for the right person, idea, system, or scheme to
make life better and to make themselves better, but their search only
reinforces their sense of incompleteness. They are unrealistic
dreamers and unprepared idealists who often become martyrs to a
cause. Frustrated with themselves and others, they misdirect their
stifled creative energy, discharging it in self-destructive ways. They
use drugs or other means to tune out a world that falls painfully
short of truth, justice, honor, or peace.

Life-Path Issues

Health

Due to their creative energy and quick mind combined with their
perfectionistic standards, 15/6s tend to be active and high-strung. If
they direct this energy into focused work, their hair-trigger energy
works in bursts of creativity and productivity. If they misdirect it,
they may experience nervous disorders, skin rashes, abdominal
problems, and possible burnout.

The body and energy field of 15/6s shine with a bright, even mystical
quality and refinement reflected in the music of Jascha Heifetz or the
style of actor David Niven, both 15/6s.

Individuals working 15/6 benefit most from evolved and refined methods
of healing, such as visualization and hypnotherapy, which draw on
subconscious imagery to generate internal self-healing mechanisms,
homeopathy, acupuncture, aromatherapy, and color therapy, all forms of
healing with the fewest side tffects.

Other people cannot effectively advise 15/6s about nutrition or
exercise because these individuals best look to their own internal
archetypes and ideals for guidance. In general, they do best on a
purifying diet and need less food than many people.

Most 15/6s are drawn to exercise that feels natural and balanced to
them; at best, they practice a simple, efficient routine incorporating
the essential elements of breathing, stretching, toning, and
relaxation, such as t'ai chi, or an evolved type of light calisthenics
that allows for variety.

Relationships

Those working 15/6 tend to idealize people out of proportion to their actual qualities or characteristics. They may also harbor secret disappointments because others are never quite perfect enough for them. They tend not to perceive the person they are with; instead, they can carry on a relationship, even long-term, with an idealized image they project onto that person; in this sense, they may love the image they have created without getting to know or accept their partner as he or she truly is. Alternately, their idealized vision may quickly wear thin as they discover "character flaws" in their partner.

In general, 15/6s desire to create something more, or higher, out of their natural sexual drive and out of relationship in general. Since they compare their relationship to an ideal image, their relationship becomes a constant form of self-improvement unless they're so busy dreaming and creating that they don't pay much attention to or invest much energy in the relationship.

Talents, Work, and Finances

Those working 15/6 explore different forms of work before finding a
chosen profession or, rather, a high calling. Their ideals and need
for variety may direct them to writing, acting, exploring, or
coaching, occupations where they feel comfortable being different and
can help to shape people and ideas into something more, since reality
never seems quite good enough or may fall short altogether. Whatever
creative endeavors they pursue, if 15/6s persist and do not become
disheartened or impatient, they excel due to their high standards.

The finances of 15/6s reflect their creative output; if 15/6s don't
find their focus as they wait for the more perfect opportunity, they
feel a lack on many levels, but if they produce something practical
and useful—something people can use today, not in the distant
future—and if their ideals inspire them to creative ventures, the
rewards appear and they prosper.

Some Weil-Known 15/6s

Isaac Asimov                 Joan of Arc

Christopher Columbus     David Niven

Federico Fellini               King Richard III

Jascha Heifetz

Keys to Fulfilling Your Destiny

If you are working 15/6, this section can help you manifest your life
purpose by focusing your attention on core issues and by generating
specific action to transform key areas of your life.

Guidelines and Recommendations

Hold to your vision, and reach it through discipline. Harness your
creative energy with patience. Visualize what you want, and let your
vision inspire you. Find the perfect freedom inside you.

Useful Questions

1.      Reflect on the following questions:

·         In what way is my present situation perfect?

·         Can I apply my high ideals and creative vision in practical ways?

·         Where can I find perfect freedom or justice?

·         Can I love and accept myself, my partner, and my world right now?

2.      If these questions generate any insights, how might you put these insights into practice?
Deepening Your Understanding

1.      Turn to Part Two and reread the main sections covering the digits that make up your birth number: 1 (p. 31) and 5 (p. 61), and 6 (p. 70).

2.      You may wish to review birth numbers of family and friends and, if they are open to it, discuss similar or different issues in your lives.
Spiritual Laws: The Leverage to Change Your Life

    Read about each of the following laws in Part Four:

·         The Law of Perfection (p. 358): High vision can inspire us, but excellence is the best we can achieve.

·         The Law of Flexibility (p. 324): Staying flexible, we make the best use of difficulties and changing circumstances.

·         The Law of the Present Moment (p. 362): Impatience and regrets dissolve in the recognition that only now exists.

·         The Law of Discipline (p. 354): Discipline brings the focus and depth of experience that leads to inner freedom.

·         The Law of Cycles (p. 394): Life is a circle of repeating changes, rising and falling like the seasons.

