22/4

4: Stability and Process

2: Cooperation and Balance

2: Cooperation and Balance

Understanding Life Purpose

Those on the 22/4 life path are here to work through issues of
cooperation, responsibility, and process to establish a stable and
secure foundation, achieving their goals through a patient process
involving mutually supportive teamwork. However, since our life
purpose entails special challenges, 22/4s have strong tendencies to
overcooperate, giving their all and then falling into resentment and
withdrawal. Their ambitions can also create blind spots, so they tend
to skip necessary steps on the path to their goal. For them, failure
is useful feedback if they're paying attention. When 22/4s run into
problems, they need to determine which step they skipped and redo it;
this releases any pattern of failure. No challenge is too great if
22/4s break it down into small, manageable portions.

For 22/4s, the double 2 has a strong influence in determining the
characteristics and issues of the life path. The first 2 deals
especially and almost totally with inner cooperation; thus, the
fulfillment of the destiny of 22/4s begins with their integration of
conflicting beliefs, values, or tendencies. When the life of 22/4s
feels problematic, they need to go back to their own inner foundation
and, through therapy or other means, harmonize their inner world
before trying to organize and control their environment. The second 2
for 22/4s focuses on outer cooperation— relating with others, honoring
their own and others' boundaries, and finding the critical balance
between giving too much and shutting down.

Nearly all 22/4s have strong analytical and structuring capacities,
but when 22/4s use these capacities to excess, their mind whirls in
over-analysis or compulsive worrying until it finally shuts down and
reactive emotions or impulsive action take over. Impulsive actions
then lead to regrets. As for all 2s, balance and integration are key;
the aim is to blend mind and emotions, balancing logic with intuition,
rather than resorting to extremes. When 22/4s feel confused, they
benefit from writing their ideas down and then trusting their
instincts—following their gut feeling—for final decisions.

Those working 22/4 need to apply clear, realistic insight and
self-compassion in confronting their issues; otherwise, they may react
to an overwhelming sense of responsibility by putting on blinders,
ignoring feedback, and going into denial, leaving imbalances and
problems unacknowledged. Most 22/4s have strong, focused, sometimes
rigid opinions, and they don't always listen well to contradictory
ideas because they have so many of their own.

When the double 2 and the 4 work together, 22/4s have exceptional
vigor and potential. How that potential manifests depends upon how
they align their life with the spiritual laws key to their
destiny. With the 4 energy, 22/4s have strength, fortitude, and
endurance, but if their life is to proceed toward the fulfillment of
their destiny, all depends on making the journey in small, sure steps,
and checking to make sure that they have established a solid
foundation before proceeding. When this pattern is worked in the
positive, 22/4s meet with extraordinary achievement.

Working 22/4 in the Positive

These clear-thinking, centered individuals can accomplish whatever
they set out to do, by a process of small steps, turning stumbling
blocks along the way into stepping-stones. When they fail, they learn
from their mistakes and do not repeat them. They have learned hard
lessons, but over time the lessons have gotten easier. They have found
the balance point between giving too much and giving too little. They
live from a stable center of internal harmony and cooperation. They
serve others only to the point they feel good and clear about their
service. Relatively free of worry and stress, they allow their body to
relax into life; their mind focuses on the present as they plan the
next small step along the way.

Working 22/4 in the Negative

These individuals always seem to verge on the edge of one crisis or
another. They are frequently frantic, even hysterical. They experience
inner confusion and stress. Making impulsive decisions they later
regret, they stubbornly hold their course and repeat the same
mistakes. Their forceful, rigid views create anger when others don't
do what these individuals think they should. As master codependents,
they overgive to the point of depletion. They form intense
relationships, which they throw themselves into at first and then cut
themselves off from, feeling alienated and resentful. Generally
impatient, they want to get everything done now, without going through
the necessary step-by-step process.

Life-Path Issues

Health

Most 22/4s are slim, strong, and wiry, but they are sometimes
overweight due to other factors (such as childhood abuse or lack of
good education on nutrition). They may suffer accidents because of
their impulsive action or mental distraction. When they take
responsibility for themselves instead of for everyone else, their
health remains strong. As long as they run their life in an orderly
fashion and don't get overly stressed, they have one of the sturdier
constitutions.

Since the center of their life is service and support of others, 22/4s
rarely become too self-indulgent with food; for the most part, they
prefer quality to quantity. Food is just something to obtain between
tasks and goals, and meals are often catch-as-catch-can.

Nearly all 22/4s do well with exercises and movements that develop
flexibility, relaxation, and flow; dance, aerobics with stretching,
yoga, aikido, t'ai chi, or other martial arts. These practices
emphasize step-by-step skill training and working with partners in a
give-and-take way that can help balance their already-strong bodies
and their often rigid temperaments better than, say, weight training.

Relationships

As a foundation for all of their relationships, most 22/4s need to
clarify their interactions with their parents. All 22/4s work with
foundation energy; their early home life represents the base on which
they build. Since our central purpose brings up issues to work
through, most 22/4s likely have issues to work out with one or both
parents or siblings. Most people have some issues to work out with
parents, but it's especially important for 22/4s (like any 4s) to deal
with these. This doesn't mean getting parents' approval or even
agreement, but it does mean talking, sharing views, agreeing to
disagree, and being authentic rather than denying or avoiding old
resentments. Most 22/4s also learn much through their relationship
with their own children or with other children they care for or
mentor.

Most 22/4s tend to take care of others' needs in a functional
manner. They tend to be highly responsible and protective care givers,
but they aren't usually sentimental, favoring practicality over
emotional nur-turance. If, for example, their child gets a cut, they
won't necessarily fuss over it; they'll efficiently clean the cut and
get a bandage.

In other relationships, 22/4s are generally practical, direct,
confident, and forthright; to balance these qualities, they also need
to take the time to slow down, relax, breathe, feel, and bring
sensitivity and empathy into their love relationships. Especially in
this arena, 22/4sneed to focus on what they really feel, not just on
what they think they want or think they "should" do.

In the positive, most 22/4s can make extraordinary efforts to serve
and support those they love. But when the negative aspects of their
strength are activated, their emotional reactivity and strong, often
rigid views of how other people "should" behave don't always make for
smooth relationships. Also, since their temperament swings from
over-accommodating to resistant, they aren't always inclined to
compromise or to listen to others' feedback.

In the positive, however, their intrinsic loyalty and brightness make
the effort worthwhile. Having a partner who doesn't have control
issues and is easygoing helps their relationships flow more smoothly.

Sexuality for 22/4s tends toward the earthy, vital, and functional;
lovemaking may be robust, but not always romantic or slow and
sensual. Additionally, some 22/4s, like other 4s, have encountered
forms of emotional, physical, or sexual abuse that need to be worked
through before their sexual lives can blossom.

Talents, Work, and Finances

Strength, persistence, common sense, and fortitude can take 22/4s as
far as they want to go, as long as they are willing to go through the
process to get there. They feel deep satisfaction when using their
special talents to support others in service, whether within their
family or in teaching, advising, and business enterprises. Their
practical organizational and analytical skills help them excel in many
other fields.

Because 22/4s like to know what is expected of them, they generally
feel attracted to anything practical, with clear limits, boundaries,
and measures of success.

A strong quality of 22/4s related to their approach to work and life
involves issues of cooperation. After having their fill of doing what
everyone else wanted or expected of them in their childhood, many
22/4s develop maverick qualities later in life and, like 22/4 Frank
Sinatra, "do it their way."

Their strong orientation toward security means financial stability is
a priority; they achieve it through high energy and focused work. As
long as they approach their goals step-by-step and remember to enjoy
the process, they prosper.
