24/6 & 42/6
6: Vision and Acceptance
4: Stability and Process
2: Cooperation and Balance
Understanding Life Purpose

Those on the 24/6 or 42/6 life path are here to work through issues of
perfectionism, process, and responsibility, taking life one step at a
time, manifesting their vision in practical ways, and accepting the
inherent perfection of their life. Since our life purpose doesn't come
easily, 24/6s and 42/6s have a hard time accepting themselves, others,
and the world as they are. Both 24/6s and 42/6s can get lost worrying
about petty details—things they said, should have said, or shouldn't
have said or done. Regrets and guilts are a familiar part of their
life until 24/6s and 42/6s expand their vision to the bigger picture,
to the overriding perfection of life. With 4 issues combined with
ideals of 6 energy, 24/6s and 42/6s have difficulty with patience;
they see their own and everyone else's potential and push to reach the
summit, but they would rather make the journey in one leap than follow
the step-by-step process they're here to master.

Both 24/6s and 42/6s tend to idealize people they've just met, or new
opportunities, jobs, and places; then they feel disappointed because
nothing and no one can ever quite meet their expectations. Most 24/6s
and 42/6s tend to set themselves up and let themselves down.

They need to balance their native idealism and vision with a strong
dose of realism and come to appreciate the imperfections we all came
here to work through. Starting out as idealists, 24/6s and 42/6s set
themselves up for disappointment as they search for the perfect job,
the perfect relationship, or the perfect life. Whatever they're doing
or whomever they're with, they have a sneaking suspicion that there
may be someone or something better.

Despite this, 24/6s or 42/6s are not necessarily fickle or
promiscuous; for the most part, their high standards and self-image
help ensure high codes of behavior. If they do slip, the regrets and
guilts they suffer are usually worse than any punishment. Even when
doing very good work, they have a little voice inside that says, "It
could be better." They try too hard, feel too responsible, and are
generally hard on themselves. When they criticize other people, they
are likely to judge themselves for judging others.

With the combination of 2 and 4 energies, 24/6s and 42/6s bring
powerful support and service energies into play. They have the
internal strength to bring at least some of their visions into reality
as they find the limits of their responsibility, master cooperation,
and work toward their goals in small, persistent steps.

With the sense of responsibility that goes with 2, the easy
sociability of 4, and the high ideals of 6, 24/6s and 42/6s push
themselves very hard in their impatience to reach their goals. They
have a vision of everyone's highest potential, including their own,
without always appreciating others or themselves right now, doing
their best.

Because 2 and 4 energies have more similarities than any two other
digits—sharing tendencies toward overanalysis, codependency (a sense
of overresponsibility for the lives and feelings of others), strength,
and stubbornness—the 24/6 and 42/6 life paths are nearly identical,
except for a slightly different emphasis based on the reversed order
of the first two digits, 2 and 4.

While 24/6s experience issues with family (4) somewhat more acutely
than 42/6s, 42/6s have a stronger tendency toward overcooper-ation
(2), sometimes turning to undercooperation (resistance or
withdrawal). But both 24/6s and 42/6s experience both kinds of issues,
and they share the same tendencies to push themselves and others,
measuring everyone against their high standards.

Both 24/6s and 42/6s, unless they are in a very negative state, are
pleasant people to be around; with the support and service energy of 2
and the easy sociability of 4, they treat other people like
family. Due to the interaction of high standards (6s wanting to "do
right" and "be good") and the tendency of both 2s and 4s to do what
they think they "should" do rather than what they really feel, both
24/6s and 42/6s tend to be masters of self-deception and denial. They
deny their own feelings, deny their situation, and sometimes
stubbornly hold to their course even if their ship is
sinking. Therefore, both benefit from the Law of Flexibility (p. 324),
which teaches them to flow with what happens in life.

Those working 24/6 or 42/6 are generally very outgoing, gregarious,
bright, strong, and vital. They try hard to please others and to do
the right thing, so they need to stay vigilant of those who may
attempt to manipulate them through guilt. They need to do the right
thing for themselves—to contact their own authentic values and needs.

Since 24/6s and 42/6s appreciate their own and others' potential, they
tend to push themselves and others to fulfill their
expectations. These individuals tend toward chronic self-improvement
programs until they finally come to accept themselves and others as
they are right now, and appreciate that while they aren't perfect,
facets of them are very good

Both 24/6s and 42/6s need to appreciate the difference between true or
ultimate perfection and perfectionism—unrealistically high standards
that can never be fulfilled and that lead to frustration. As 24/6s and
42/6s mature, they come to appreciate the inherent or transcendental
perfection of everything and everyone, while realizing that in this
conditional realm, no person, product, or performance is perfect;
excellence, not perfection, is the best we can achieve.

Both 24/6s and 42/6s need to understand that excellence comes through
following a careful, patient, thorough, step-by-step process. A
skipped step can mean failure and having to start over.

Since they compare themselves with their ideals (or with the best
people around), 24/6s and 42/6s often feel like "failures" even when
they are doing very good work. They also may lack practical
judgment-thinking their "cake" is complete when it's still only
half-baked.

With their strong 4 energy, 24/6s and 42/6s tend toward over-analysis,
which changes to disorientation as their mind whirls, weighing all the
variables. This confusion can result in impulsive or compulsive
decisions and corresponding regrets. Since they are here to ground
their energy, they also have challenges in this area. If they resist
the process, they sometimes encounter difficulties translating their
high visions and hopes into practical forms of occupations and
service.

Once 24/6s and 42/6s relax into life and into their body, accept and
appreciate their own and others' imperfections, and learn to trust
that their life reflects, in some sense, a perfect process of
learning, growth, and evolution, they finally feel as if they've come
home. The process to realizing this perfection takes time and happens
in small increments; it cannot be rushed, as much as they'd like to
get it all done right now.

Working 24/6 or 42/6 in the Positive

Bright, gregarious, productive, and supportive, these individuals have
a good relationship with friends and associates. Their practical
analytical ability blends common sense with high vision. They act with
strong conscience and want to learn from their mistakes and continue
to improve themselves and their world. Strong, healthy, and energy
packed, these individuals can be counted upon to get any job done as
their work evolves from good to brilliant. They are always improving,
always pushing toward perfection, but they accept the step-by-step
process from where they are to where they want to be. They have a good
sense of balance; they know how to give graciously and how to
receive. Practical idealists, they appreciate themselves and others
and find joy in the world.

Working 24/6 or 42/6 in the Negative

These individuals feel frustrated and impatient with their life
because nothing meets their high standards or happens as quickly as
they would like. Impractical, impatient dreamers, they start out with
a burst of enthusiasm and effort, but if they don't succeed quickly,
they soon abandon ideas and plans without really giving them a chance
to develop ("What's the use?"). They idealize people they meet, then
feel disappointed to learn that those people have their own issues to
work through. Hypersensitive to criticism because they're so critical
of themselves, they don't listen well to others' feedback or advice,
and they make the same mistakes over and over again.

Life-Path Issues

Health

Most 24/6s and 42/6s have a strong constitution, resistant to
illness. If they do become ill, they usually heal quickly. If they
experience a chronic condition, they usually find they brought it on
themselves through long-term resistance to change and associated
tension. Accidents, especially to lower extremities, may be more
likely if they act impulsively, get distracted, or overreach
themselves. Their adult life may entail a process of healing and
rejuvenation or a process of degeneration, based on their health
habits. Depending upon their stress level, degree of worrying, or the
pressures of perfectionism, they may develop allergies or use tobacco
or alcohol to relieve frustration.

Due to their blend of high standards and impulsiveness, 24/6s and
42/6s tend to strive for ideal dietary or exercise habits for periods
of time, followed by vacations or binges. They may alternate between
puritan and hedonist tendencies, feeling as if they've "blown it,"
then making new resolutions.

Rather than looking for the perfect diet or the perfect exercise
system, 24/6s and 42/6s do best when they gradually refine habits of
moderation that reflect the step-by-step process toward excellence
they're here to learn. If, for example, they decide to 10se weight,
the success of going through a patient process is of far more
significance in terms of their life path than quickly succeeding with
their weight-10ss program.

Their already-strong body finds balance in activities that combine
mental focus, emotional calm, and relaxation with physical
suppleness. They can tolerate and thrive on strong, regular
workouts. Rather than just taking up a routine fitness practice, such
as running or swimming, both 24/6sand 42/6s gain even more benefits
when they include a martial art, yoga, a dance form, or another
activity that requires a process of improvement over time.

Relationships

Overall, 42/6s and especially 24/6s can become frantic trying to find
the perfect job or relationship. Because of this, they can sometimes
encounter difficulty feeling stable or committed to a person or a
job. Commitment can frighten them, because for them, commitment means
forever, but they are never sure they've found the "perfect one." They
say, "I love you," but inside they don't know if they're really
telling the truth because they aren't sure if they love enough; they
aren't even sure how they feel, because they've only learned what they
are "supposed to feel," and it takes time for them to contact and
accept their genuine feelings, both "good" and "bad."

Because of their gregarious nature, when working in the positive 24/6s
and 42/6s make enjoyable company. Concerned and conscientious, they
give that extra effort. Their high standards render them enthusiastic,
skillful lovers who generally give more than they take, so they need
to learn to find a balance of giving and receiving and put more
emphasis on vulnerability rather than on performance.

Talents, Work, and Finances

Strength and precision make bodywork, architecture, or
service-oriented professions enjoyable kinds of work for 24/6s and
42/6s. They also make excellent advisers in business due to their
analytical abilities and the support energy of 2. Some 24/6s and 42/6s
even end up in some form of planning or politics to help improve the
world. They also make natural athletes—gymnasts, divers, tennis
players, or skaters. Where strength and form are essential, 24/6s and
42/6s can make some of the best athletes anywhere, whatever the sport.

They aren't limited to such areas, however, and fit into nearly any
occupation if it suits their values and sense of meaning. The key for
them is to cut through the "shoulds" and ideals and rediscover what
they really feel and enjoy.

The finances of 24/6s and 42/6s depend upon how practical rather than
idealistic they are, and whether they're willing to go through the
step-by-step process and preparation necessary to reach their goals,
that is, whether they're willing to "pay their dues." While they
search for the most ideal work for them, they shouldn't give up their
day job, which provides the foundation and security that can enable
them to move on to something that suits them better.

Some Weil-Known 24/6s and 42/6s

24/6s

Elizabeth Barrett Browning          Jesse Jackson

Lewis Carroll                              John Lennon

Car10s Castaneda                       Joe Louis

Phil Donahue                              Eleanor Roosevelt

Thomas Edison                           J. R. R, Tolkien

Gary Grant                                 Stevie Wonder

Howard Hughes                         Joanne Woodward
42/6s

T. S. Eliot                                   Pope Paul VI

Michael Jackson                         Christian Slater
Keys to Fulfilling Your Destiny

If you are working 24/6 or 42/6, this section can help you manifest
your life purpose by focusing your attention on core issues and by
generating specific action to transform key areas of your life.

Guidelines and Recommendations

Accept yourself as you are, not as you "should" be. Enjoy the process, not just the product. Appreciate this reality: No perfect job or person exists. Relax and breathe easy; you are not responsible for others. Stay open to feedback, listen to it, and accept it graciously.
Useful Questions

1.      Reflect on the following questions:

·         Do I fully realize my present value and capacity?

·         Am I honest with myself?

·         Does my life feel stable and settled?

·         In what ways are my present circumstances perfect?

2.  If these questions generate any insights, how might you put these
insights into practice?

Deepening Your Understanding

1.      Turn to Part Two and reread the main sections covering the digits that make up your birth number: 2 (p. 38), 4 (p. 52), and 6 (p. 70).

2.  You may wish to review birth numbers of family and friends and, if
they are open to it, discuss similar or different issues in your
lives.

Spiritual Laws: The Leverage to Change Your Life

1.      Read about each of the following laws in Part Four:

·         The Law of Flexibility (p. 324): Staying flexible, we make
          the best use of difficulties and changing circumstances. 

·         The Law of Process (p. 346): We can best achieve our goals
          by taking one small, sure step at a time. 

·         The Law of Balance (p. 341): Seeing our tendency to swing
          from one extreme to another, we find our balance. 

·         The Law of Perfection (p. 358): High vision can inspire us,
          but excellence is the best we can achieve. 

·         The Law of No Judgments (p. 365): The universe does not
          judge us; it only teaches us through natural consequences. 

2.      Do the exercises you find for each of these laws.

3.      Consider how you might apply each law to your life.
