27/9

9: Integrity and Wisdom

7: Trust and Openness

2: Cooperation and Balance

Understanding Life Purpose

Those on the 27/9 life path are here to work through issues of
balanced responsibility, self-trust, and integrity as they come to
trust and follow Spirit manifesting within them and others, living in
alignment with the higher wisdom of the heart. Since our life purpose
represents an uphill climb, 27/9s eventually confront and have to
overcome tendencies to mentalize experience rather than trust their
heart. They also need to work through subconscious issues of mistrust
and betrayal and open their guarded heart to find and follow the
spiritual laws "written" there.

In order to access the higher laws of their heart, 27/9s must first
let go of their concerns about others' opinions and trust their own
higher wisdom revealed in their feelings rather than their mental
processes. The 7, however, often leads 27/9s to trust everyone but
themselves— teachers, masters, scientific experts, or advisers—and to
live by other people's theories. We can all learn from others, but
27/9s in particular are here to place final authority with "the
counsel of their heart."

Although integrity and wisdom form the primary life purpose of 27/9s,
7 is key because 27/9s have to come to trust themselves in order to
access the higher principles that will guide them to integrity. Until
then, all they can do is what someone else has suggested. Life
provides 27/9s with many situations that repeat the same message:
Trust your heart; let your mind surrender to the wisdom of the heart."
The term wisdom of the heart refers to the feeling dimension, whether
we call it conscience, universal unconscious, or intuition.

Like 25/7s, 27/9s can become awareness-training addicts or spiritual
vagabonds, going from one workshop, guru, or ashram to the next,
looking for confirmation and guidance from teachers, guides, or others
who offer guidelines for living. The more 27/9s monitor others'
opinions, the more difficulty they have getting in touch with their
own feeling center.

Since 7 energy tends to focus in the mind and leads 27/9s to avoid
feelings that have in the past brought pain, 27/9s face a significant
internal challenge before they can access and live in alignment with
the laws of Spirit. One indicator that 27/9s are focused in mental
processes rather than connected to their feelings occurs when they use
more words than necessary to express what they want to say. When they
10se touch with what they actually feel, they talk around issues and
engage in social chatter, but they aren't truly self-revealing, even
to themselves. Even with their outer social animation, internally most
27/9s feel more like hermits at times, or even look like them, and
they definitely need their own private space.

With their need for privacy, imagine how difficult 27/9 Elvis
Presley's life must have been; he felt a sense of Spirit that worked
through him in his own way, accounting in part for his magic to
millions of people, but he let others manage his life rather than
following his own heart, and this destroyed him. Errol Flynn, another
charismatic 27/9, serves as a pointed example of someone who let his
physical desires and impulses predominate over his heartfelt
intuitions. Each figure, in his own way, lost touch with his own
integrity; although exemplary in many ways, these individuals are not
the best overall examples of how to live in accord with higher
principles.

Most 27/9s appear self-assured and have a natural charisma associated
with the leadership energy of 9s. Their sometimes forceful mental
ideas and opinions overcompensate for their lack of trust. These
opinions tend to become fanatical beliefs in some idea, person, or
method. Because they tie their identity to their beliefs and opinions,
their beliefs can become fanatical even when they start out with good
intentions. The confident appearance of 27/9s masks a deeper
uncertainty; they have a diffuse sense of identity and constantly
strive to redefine themselves. "Quiet zealots," 27/9s sometimes
mistake their opinions for God's will.

Because of the 2, those 27/9s who have awakened to the higher service
find meaning in providing support for and in cooperation with
others. Such individuals don't need to preach, and they may not look
"spiritual" at all; whatever their role or occupation in life, they
teach others by example. Whether they use spiritual language is
irrelevant. Leadership and inspiration by example form the keys to
their life purpose; they let their life be their teaching. If their
life is one of integrity, then no words are necessary; if it isn't,
then no words can suffice.

Many spiritual and religious leaders have been 27/9s, including
Mahatma Gandhi, Paramahansa Yogananda, Oscar Ichazo, Da Free John,
Pope John XXIII, Pope Pius XIII, Albert Schweitzer, Henry David
Thoreau, Kahlil Gibran, and even Shirley MacLaine. In addition,
nonre-ligious leaders who have inspired generations with their own
unique charisma include Elvis Presley, Ray Charles, Johannes Brahms,
George Burns, and Robin Williams.

At the other extreme lies the danger of charismatic teachers, many of
whom are themselves 27/9s, who attract groups of followers but who do
not practice what they preach and excuse themselves by their higher
rank or state of realization. They have their own issues to learn, as
do their followers.

Many 27/9s fear spirituality because of subconscious fears of getting
too c10se to the flame (as in burnt at the stake). Whether or not they
have conscious awareness of it, if they explore their psyches, most
27/9s find an inner resonance with those who were persecuted because
their loyalty was to the higher laws of Spirit, not the current ruling
order. The archetypes of "sin" and "repentance" reside within the
consciousness of even those 27/9s who would never use such language.

Whether 27/9s gravitate toward spiritual ideas or avoid them, they
feel a longing for higher wisdom, to know and share the guiding
principles of life, as well as a deep need for compassion and
understanding from others and an ability to give back in equal
measure.

Those working 27/9 develop self-trust in their own good time, through
direct experience, not just through learning from a wise teacher or
reading books. In other words, 27/9s need to experience higher wisdom
and feel this inspiration directly. They need to know and feel Spirit
within themselves and others. Ultimately, no matter how well their
external life is going, a part of them will not rest until they've
realized this truth.

Working 27/9 in the Positive

These individuals exude depth and charisma based on their heartfelt
trust in Spirit working through them. With their balanced,
compassionate wisdom, they have also learned to trust Spirit in the
form of other people and in the form of life's circumstances, which,
no matter how pleasurable or difficult, they experience as
teachings. Although their needs are often met, even in adversity they
feel thankful for the lessons they receive. They make natural leaders
who teach by example. Committed to service and expressing universal
wisdom rather than rigid opinions, they help inspire others through
their integrity and their at-tunement to higher laws. They are natural
leaders who teach by example. Maintaining a feeling connection to the
higher will within them, they effectively serve others.

Working 27/9 in the Negative

Deluded preachers or eternal seekers, these individuals center their
world around a particular teaching, method, religion, or
phi10sophy. Quiet fanatics, they live according to the dictates or
opinions of others and act as if their own opinions were
sacred. Others who don't trust themselves may follow or admire such
individuals, mistaking strong opinions for spiritual authority. Deep
down, these 27/9s feel lonely and cut off from the world and from true
inspiration in their lives, because they trust their mind over their
heart. They fear and eventually attract betrayal by others, even by
their own body.

Life-Path Issues

Health

Most 27/9s have a significant amount of debris floating around in
their subconscious, including burdensome guilts from childhood. The 7
means 27/9s may experience a sensitivity around the heart area if they
suffer from chronic, unresolved feelings of betrayal.

Feelings of isolation or disconnection can lead some 27/9s to
psychological disturbances, as well as to abuse of drugs or alcohol,
which numbs their inner pain. The sad irony in cases of drug
dependence is that 27/9s are looking to an external source to find the
connection with Spirit that is already inside them.

The key to diet, exercise, and every arena of health for 27/9s is
clear: They need to trust their instincts, intuition, and direct
experience. They have probably studied theories or research about
nutrition or exercise, but they need to take all that knowledge, check
it against their own intuition system, and then act. They do well to
recognize the consequences, both positive or negative, of action or
inaction, of what they eat or don't eat, and of their habits of
exercise. Whatever they do serves as an example to others around them.

Because 27/9s focus their awareness in their head and mental
processes, they have one of the least physically grounded birth
numbers. Physical training not only provides standard fitness benefits
for 27/9s, allowing for a balanced body and clear mind, but also helps
them to stay in touch with the physically based, practical realities
of daily life. The exercise that works best for 27/9s is the form they
choose based on their own experience.

Meditation, in whatever form they choose, gives 27/9s a chance to rest
their mind and find inner peace. In that peace, their heart speaks.

Relationships

Those working 27/9 energy may have developed deep empathy and
emotional depth, or they may have created an emotional persona to
compensate for their mental approach to life. The key for 27/9s in
relationships is letting go of mental processes and entering a
dimension of feeling untroubled by the turbulence of thoughts,
beliefs, and opinions.

Their relationships offer the chance to experience vulnerability
wherein the lessons of trust are learned. For 27/9s, relationships are
important not in themselves but as a means of growth and communion;
the issues that arise become grist for the mill and lessons on the
path.

Good sex for 27/9s is like going to confession. Sexuality for them
tends to serve as a means to find harmony, connection, and communion
rather than, say, just raw pleasure. They enjoy sexual relations to
the degree that they can surrender to and trust their body's mindless
wisdom and joy.

Talents, Work, and Finances

Because of an inherent, though not always manifested, love of the
outdoors, 27/9s make very good backwoods guides, for example, but they
also excel at high-tech careers. Those working 27/9 are creative in
terms of finding deeper wisdom. Because they like time alone, they
make excellent researchers.

Most 27/9s excel in service and healing-related work, in the broadest
meanings of those terms. Their natural charisma, which they don't
always appreciate or trust, makes them compelling dancers, actors, or
artists, but their art feels more meaningful to them if connected to a
higher purpose or motive of service.

Stemming from their subconscious resonance with the vows of poverty
taken by monks and nuns, many 27/9s feel a subtle negativity toward or
mixed feelings about money and worldly success. If money is scarce in
their lives, 27/9s may want to reexamine their positive and negative
beliefs about money. They also benefit from exploring self-trust
issues, which can hold them back hi some areas of work. For 27/9s,
money, like most things in life, is only a means to learn more about
the workings of their own psyche. Their presence and depth pull 27/9s
to leadership positions. They most often earn enough money to meet
their needs and then some.

Some Weil-Known 27/9s

Luisa May Alcott            Ray Charles

Julia Child                       Harrison Ford

Mahatma Gandhi            Benny Goodman

Jimi Hendrix                   Shirley MacLaine

Thurgood Marshall          Annie Oakley

Elvis Presley                   Albert Schweitzer

Gloria Steinem                Henry David Thoreau

Orson Welles

Keys to Fulfilling Your Destiny

If you are working 27/9, this section can help you manifest your life
purpose by focusing your attention on core issues and by generating
specific action to transform key areas of your life.

Guidelines and Recommendations

    Trust that your deepest feelings will guide you precisely to the
    lessons you're here to learn.
    
    Every day, remember that Spirit shines through you and everyone
    else.
    
    Forgive yourself for your mistakes.
    
    Don't take opinions too seriously—yours or anyone else's.

Useful Questions

1.    Reflect on the following questions:

·         Is my life an example of the highest integrity?

·         What inspires me?

·         Who is the expert on my life?

·         Do I honor my own process and that of others?

2. If these questions generate any insights, how might you put these
   insights into practice?

Deepening Your Understanding

1.           Turn to Part Two and reread the main sections covering the digits that make up your birth number: 2 (p. 38), 7 (p. 78), and 9 (p. 95).

2.           You may wish to review birth numbers of family and friends and, if they are open to it, discuss similar or different issues in your lives.

Spiritual Laws: The Leverage to Change Your Life

1.         Read about each of the following laws in Part Four:

·         The Law of Higher Will (p. 381): Our willingness to serve a higher purpose can inspire us to inspire others.

·         The Law of Intuition (p. 385): As we stop monitoring others' Opinions, we connect with our heart's wisdom.

·         The Law of Faith (p. 369): Only when we find faith in ourselves can we have faith in others.

·         The Law of Flexibility (p. 324): Staying flexible, we make the best use of difficulties and changing circumstances.

·         The Law of No Judgments (p. 365): The universe does not judge us; it only teaches us through natural consequences.

2.         Do the exercises you find for each of these laws.

3.         Consider how you might apply each law to your life.
