28/10

10: Creativity and Confidence With Inner Gifts

8: Abundance and Power

2: Cooperation and Balance

Understanding Life Purpose

Those on the 28/10 life path are here to work through issues combining
material success and creative energy, applying their creative energy
and intuitive gifts in service of others, guiding with authority and
compassion. With the combined influence of creativity and the inner
gifts of sensitivity, strength, expression, and refined intuition, the
authority of 28/10s comes to full power once they overcome their life
issues and obstacles. The sense of abundance and authority they
achieve may center around family or the world at large, and it
manifests as they step forward with confidence and with a clear motive
of service.

Using the method outlined in this book for determining birth numbers,
we do not add together the final two digits of four-digit birth
numbers. However, if we did add them together (1 + 0), we would end up
with a 28/10/1, underscoring the potential influence of double
creative energy (1) intensified by the inner gifts of sensitivity,
strength, expressiveness, and intuition (0), as well as issues of
insecurity.

Nearly all 28/10s have "healing hands"; using them with sensitivity,
they can intuitively feel where to direct or channel life energy. If
they give back rubs to friends, both they and their lucky friends will
experience something special.

Because many 28/10s have subconscious resonance with an ancient
lineage of wizards, sorceresses, or enchanters, some of whom misused
their abilities, 28/1 Os may fear using their powers. The Law of
Higher Will (p. 381) plays a central role, as it inspires them to use
their abilities for a higher purpose and thereby releases subconscious
fears.

Those working 28/10 have an inborn drive for authority, and they tend
to gain respect from friends, family, or society at large. Assuming
this positive authority fulfills one aspect of their destiny. Given
that our life purpose doesn't come easily, 28/10s have issues with
authority, and before 28/10s can assume their own authority, they have
to acknowledge, express, and finally release repressed anger toward
authority figures. The bumper sticker "Question Authority!" was
probably created by someone on the 28/10 life path.

The powerful creativity of 28/10s is accompanied by equally powerful
insecurities. These insecurities, amplified by mixed feelings about
power and a tendency to disown their own power, create challenging
hurdles for 28/10s to overcome on their life path. As a result of
these tendencies, most 28/10s feel they need someone to lean on. They
often feel insecure about standing on their own feet and taking care
of themselves; yet, in the long run, they find great satisfaction when
they become self-sufficient and take control of their own life.

When not taking leadership roles, 28/10s can often become the power
behind the throne, cooperating with one or more people to create
useful forms of service for a better world. In such roles, they need
to be careful about getting too serious and preachy.

The insecurities and related passive-aggressive tendencies associated
with 1 and 8 energies contribute to 28/10s' tendency to control others
emotionally or mentally rather than state what they want honestly and
directly. The Law of Honesty (p. 377) can help 28/10s heal or improve
their relationships.

When these gifted, inspiring people come into their full confidence
and authority, they share gifts and energy to lead and uplift others.

Working 28/10 in the Positive

These individuals serve as authority figures whom others admire and
respect. They serve as intuitive advisers to friends, loved ones, and
others. Having overcome insecurity, such 28/10s make good money in
service of others, feeling the healing force that flows through
them. Independent, self-sufficient, even enchanting, they attract
others to their energy field. They know that whatever difficulties or
challenges arise, they have the power to deal with them. Intuitive and
inspiring, they provide clear counsel for the highest good of all
concerned.

Working 28/10 in the Negative

Insecure, trapped in negative beliefs about money and authority,
feeling needy and dependent, these individuals control and manipulate
others. They resent authority figures because they haven't yet taken
on their own authority. Suffering physically with symptoms of
repressed anger and frustration, they fear the dark images that appear
in their imagination; they are unable to discriminate between negative
impressions and clear intuitions. Such 28/10s haven't yet experienced
or contacted the inner and outer guides available to them.

Life-Path Issues

Health

Because they are here to become healing influences, 28/10s sometimes
learn about healing through their own physical issues, energy
illnesses, and eating disorders. Physical symptoms of repressed anger
appear primarily in the area of the solar plexus (abdomen), down to
the perineum (around the base of the spine) and lower back. If their
energies are blocked or they are working in the negative, 28/10s may
experience symptoms in their ovaries or prostate, lower back, or
coccyx, which can result in genital infections, diverticu10sis, and
problems with the lower intestinal tract. The reproductive area of
28/10s is sensitive and sometimes overstimulated. When 28/1 Os learn
to view their body as a channel of energy, this awareness provides the
key to healing themselves and others.

Applying the key spiritual laws for this number will help 28/10s
overcome insecurity, allow emotions to flow, and open the way to a
greater sense of well-being.

The compulsive eating disorders of some 28/1 Os, such as bulimia and
anorexia, often reflect control issues, with opposing tendencies to
overcontrol and undercontrol. Careful attention to a balanced,
grounding diet and active, powerful exercise open channels to new
strength and confidence.

Although some may tend to avoid exercise initially, nearly all 28/10s
thrive on exercise once they get in shape; exercise can improve their
life dramatically by providing a release for withheld emotions,
allowing blocked creative energies to flow and relieving pressure in
the reproductive area. Exercise for 28/10s also helps refine the
instincts and stimulate a healthy appetite. While exercise is good for
nearly anyone, 28/10s especially thrive on aerobic exercise; active
dance and martial arts are ideal.

Relationships

A major issue for 28/10s is trapped, unexpressed emotion—especially
anger—which they tend to hold in or intellectualize, acting didactic
and aloof instead of passionate. They often hold in anger due to
concern about others' opinions or because they fear the power of their
own anger. They may appear shy or quiet, storing negativity that needs
to be discharged. In the positive, 28/10s can be very honest and
direct in confronting authority figures. Working with the Law of
Honesty (p. 377) helps 28/10s to release anger and express feelings
openly and directly.

A sense of self-worth, self-sufficiency, and self-contained power are
keys to relationships for 28/10s. When they feel needy and want
someone to lean on, 28/10s may fall into games of control and
manipulation. But when they approach others from a secure place inside
themselves, appreciating their own attractive energy, 28/10s see that
manipulation is unnecessary and counterproductive, and they stop
giving away their power.

Due to their creative energy and sensitivity, most 28/10s have
sensitive and powerful sexual centers. They may experience problems
associated with sexuality if they abuse or overuse it. Most 28/10s
need to monitor carefully how they express their sexual and creative
energies, bringing these energies into accordance with the Law of
Choices (p. 328). They need to avoid using sexuality for control,
identity, or self-worth, and to engage in sex only when they feel
open, loving, and giving.

Talents, Work, and Finances

Those working 28/10 possess high energy, healing hands, and sensitive
intuition. They make excellent counselors who grasp important
subtleties. In addition, when their inborn leadership and authority
shine through, they can inspire others. Most 28/10s find fulfilling
work in the field of healing or in a business that helps people. Many
forms of healing exist for body, mind, and emotions, including
hands-on bodywork or energy work, counseling, writing, teaching, and
motivating others. Some 28/10s get involved with the business of
personal growth. We find 28/10s in every walk of life, but no matter
what their livelihood, they enjoy it most if given the opportunity to
use their inner gifts, creative energies, and natural sense of
authority.

These individuals need to practice utmost honesty with regard to
money. If they value money over service, they feel unfulfilled even if
they're making very good money. If they face problems with money or
with integrity, 28/10s do well to ask themselves, "What do I really
need inside?" When under the influence of negative beliefs about
money, 28/10s struggle to get it, but they unconsciously fight or
sabotage their own efforts. When their creative energy flows onward
with courage and with love, they manifest money naturally; they enjoy
it and channel it creatively. When 28/10s feel personally secure and
are willing to claim their own authority, they create abundance on
every level and make as much money as they allow themselves to. No one
stops them but themselves; when they understand this, they get out of
their own way and make significant contributions in the world.
