29/11

11: Double Creativity and Confidence

9: Integrity and Wisdom

2: Cooperation and Balance

Understanding Life Purpose

Those on the 29/11 life path are here to combine creative energy with
higher principles and integrity, finding ways to apply their
creativity in service of others, aligned with higher wisdom. Such
higher wisdom is revealed by spiritual laws, especially the laws
29/lls are here to live and learn.

Using the method outlined in this book for determining birth numbers,
we do not add together the final two digits of four-digit birth
numbers. However, if we did add them together (1 +1), we would end up
with 29/11/2, underscoring the double influence of cooperative energy
(2) for 29/lls, along with double creativity (11)—creative service.

All 29/lls, along with other double Is, have tremendous creative
potential. But because their primary life purpose represents a kind of
mountain to climb, they may not feel as creative as others who aren't
working 1 energy and who have few pressing issues or obstacles in that
arena. Some 29/lls are still "stuck" working the 2 or 9 issues that
precede the 11, which may block their awareness of the abundant energy
available to them. Many 29/lls are extremely creative, but they have
trouble handling the energy.

Before 29/lls can open the floodgates of their inborn creative
potential, they have to find themselves—their center, identity,
balance, and boundaries (2 issues). They then need to work through the
9 gauntlet, which includes clearing their dependence on the opinions
of others through the Law of Intuition (p. 385), then contacting and
living in accordance with spiritual law by taking responsibility for
their own life.

Some 29/lls come from a background of child abuse or violence; they
may need to fight to get their will back and to find their sense of
self-sufficient identity. The 2 influence plays a strong role and
requires that 29/1 Is integrate the sometimes conflicting parts of
themselves and overcome the tendency toward resistance and rigidity.

Those working 29/11 also face the challenge of insecurity. With the
double creativity of 11 comes double insecurity, which manifests in
one of two polarities: Some 29/lls act insecure, nervous, fearful, and
underconfident; other 29/lls overcompensate for this internal feeling
of inferiority by developing a guarded demeanor that can appear aloof
or overconfident. For example, although most 29/lls have very big
hearts and a genuine desire to serve helpful causes and make a
difference, they can become extremely competitive because they fear
losing and its consequences, reflecting their sense of inferiority.

The double 1 with the 9 means that the energy of 29/lls needs to be
aligned with a larger will, toward a higher good, in accordance with
balance and love. Their creativity tends to be mental rather than
emotional, full of meaning but not generally as full of color and
feeling as that of 30/3 artists, for example.

Nearly all 29/lls have a large and powerful energy field, whatever
their physical size. When inspired or excited, they need less sleep
than most people. When they decide to generate something new,
inventive, original, or insightful, they have the energy to perform
and produce wonders. Their abundant energy is a two-edged sword,
however, with great benefits or eqully great liabilities. Energy is a
tool that serves both creative and destructive forces; for example,
electrical energy can light our cities or electrocute a human body. As
29/lls learn the lessons of life, they can apply their tremendous
energy in more positive ways. Otherwise, they have a strong tendency
toward addictive behaviors to discharge a blocked and painful cauldron
of constricted creativity.

Along with all of these challenges, 29/lls display extraordinary
potential; when they face their issues with awareness and commitment,
they are among the most creative people on the planet. The energy of 2
entails a form of cooperation with others, and 29/lls are born to
support humanity in ways both large and small. Whether businesspeople
or healers, construction workers or hairdressers, mail clerks or
athletes, they have the potential to bring the spark of creativity to
life through their work, their hobbies, or their family life. Overall,
29/lls are destined to direct their powerhouse of creative energy to
uplift and inspire, to support and heal.

Working 29/11 in the Positive

These people feel inspired and inspire others as they follow a clear
path of service, the underlying motive in all that they do. Creative
strategists, supportive friends, and loyal allies, they attract people
with their natural charisma and lead by inspiration. In whatever
creative field they choose, they offer something special, showing
exceptional vitality and endurance to reach their goals. Relaxed and
open, these 29/1 Is get inspiration directly from Spirit.

Working 29/11 in the Negative

Outwardly insecure and inhibited, or aloof, subdued, and seemingly
self-assured, these individuals feel haunted by a sense of inferiority
that manifests as competitiveness and a fear of 10sing. Dominant and
opinionated, they seem to have a chip on their shoulder and a need to
prove something. Stubborn and resistant, bossy and highly opinionated,
they have a hard time letting go. Their illusory inferiority inhibits
creative risks that would make their life exciting. lost, without a
real sense of themselves, they alternate between bouts of fitful
energy and periods of collapse. Their pent-up energy generates
addictive or abusive behaviors, and their lessons about spiritual law
(especially about actions and their consequences) often get delivered
in a court of law.

Life-Path Issues

Health

Individuals working 29/11 often have an unusual appearance due to the
influence of powerful energy. Their energy field is often two or three
times the average. When inspired or excited about a creative project,
29/lls don't need as much sleep as most people. Their attractiveness
stems as much from a glowing energy field as from physical features.

They have a very sensitive reproductive (sexual/creative) area,
including the lower abdomen and lower back. Reproductive infections,
cysts, pain, lower back pain, constipation, or overweight in 29/lls
are very often related to blocked creative energy. Those working 29/11
may suffer more broken bones or unusual diseases than people working
other birth numbers. On the other hand, they seem to have exceptional
luck, such as walking away unscathed from a bad accident.

Most often, physical, emotional, or sexual problems of 29/1 Is result
from blocked creative energy or problems brought on by specific
patterns of abuse. Bodywork greatly benefits 29/1 Is, whether they are
getting it or giving it.

The subconscious minds of 29/lls are open and suggestible; therefore,
positive thinking, visualization, and other forms of healing that work
with the subconscious and the "energy body," such as acupuncture,
acupressure, shiatsu, laying on of hands, bioenergetics, and
nutritional therapy, often yield better results than standard drugs
and medicine.

In general, 29/lls need a varied diet that includes more dense or
grounding foods than many other people—foods such as grains, beans, or
occasional fish or poultry. They need to pay attention to the laws of
nutrition and exercise in the same way they need to pay attention to
any spiritual law. Even more than most of us, 29/lls "become" what
they ingest. Their sensitive energy does not tolerate drugs or alcohol
well; they do best to avoid them altogether.

Like all double Is, 29/lls absolutely need more exercise than the
average person—not just for fitness reasons but as a means of keeping
their energy flowing and grounded. After a period of conditioning,
they tolerate exercise well and thrive on it. Exercising daily and
finding creative work or hobbies bring a sense of vitality and
well-being to 29/lls.

Relationships

While they often have a sentimental side, 29/lls tend to focus their
creative energies in their mind, which inhibits their emotional
expression. They tend to repress or intellectualize their
feelings. Emotional inhibition, or the apparent absence of emotions,
often affects their relationships.

Like 27/9s and 25/7s, 29/lls value and seek relationship with others
because they lack a sense of relationship with themselves. Most 29/lls
appreciate many friends and contacts and also need someone to be there
for them as a source of support, but they sometimes get caught in the
double bind of seeking relationship while simultaneously trying to
assert their independent nature. Rarely joiners, 29/lls generally live
as the individualist who marches to a different drummer.

Many people find 29/lls attractive due to their large and stimulating
energy field. However, when feeling insecure and inhibited, 29/lls may
experience difficulty with relationships. When their creative juices
are flowing into projects or work, they may be too busy being creative
to have much time for relationships. Their combination of loyalty,
insecurity (needing a sense of connection), and an independent streak
makes for complex relationships.

Their sex life can be a paradox: On the one hand, with the amount of
energy flowing through them, most 29/1 Is who aren't blocked have a
strong need for regular orgasms unless they are channeling their
sexual energy into intense creative projects or hard physical
training. On the other hand, their sexuality can sometimes be
repressed and inhibited out of insecurity, or they may withhold sexual
expression (negative 2 in undercooperation). Overall, the emotional
and sexual life of 29/lls reflects how much balance they have created
in the rest of their life.

Talents, Work, and Finances

By virtue of their creativity and presence, all 29/lls have within
them the archetype, energy, and creative inspiration of the inventor,
the artist, the athlete, and the leader. Natural networkers who enjoy
many contacts, 29/lls represent the paradox of strong individualists
who are also here to serve the larger good of the community.

In the financial arena, 29/lls attract money because money is a form
of energy and "like attracts like." As their energy flows, so flows
their abundance. To the degree that 29/lls have stepped forth and
expressed their creativity in positive ways, they do very well
financially, achieving the security so important to them (2
influence). When not working in the positive, they demonstrate and
experience down-in-the-dumps feelings of insecurity and lack.

For 29/lls, money is just a way of keeping tabs on how their energy is
flowing, although in some cases the accumulation of money can become a
kind of competitive game or a way to gain others' respect and
approval—a strong motivation for these individuals. As long as they
focus on creative service, 29/lls find that abundance comes naturally.
