36/9

9: Integrity and Wisdom

6: Vision and Acceptance

3: Expression and Sensitivity

Understanding Life Purpose

Those on the 36/9 life path are here to work through issues of
emotional honesty, perfectionist ideals, and self-doubt as they learn
to live in accord with the wisdom of their heart, thereby serving as
an example of integrity in their daily life. Since what we're here to
do doesn't come easily, 36/9s face significant hurdles on their life
path and may take years to learn to honor and value their own feelings
over perfectionistic ideals or others' opinions. A major challenge is
finding out what they really feel in contrast to what they think they
"should" feel.

Even though 36/9s share the same life purpose as other 9s, the 3 and 6
create a considerably different life path from the life paths of
18/9s, 27/9s, or 45/9s. The perfectionism of 6 influences and
intensifies the innate self-doubt of these sensitive and refined
individuals. Because 36/9s tend to measure themselves against ideal
standards, the idea that they are here to live with the "highest
integrity" may seem impossible or overwhelming, especially since 36/9s
interpret this to mean "perfect integrity" rather than simply
following the messages of their own heart.

The 3 and 6 reinforce 36/9s' strong sensitivity to criticism, since
they are already vulnerable to others' opinions. Given the idealistic
standards to which they compare themselves, many 36/9s feel
periodically disheartened or discouraged, sometimes giving up even
before they begin. They may wear a mask of assurance, but for this
confidence to stabilize, they have to balance the tendency to swing
from manic over-confidence into doubt and depression by recognizing
this as a challenge associated with their life path, a hurdle they are
here to overcome. By applying the Law of Action (p. 390), they learn
to acknowledge self-doubt and then move through it.

Most 36/9s feel an unsure sense of their own center or identity; they
search not only for how they feel, but for who they are. Because of
the combined hurdles of self-doubt, perfectionism, and uncertain
identity, 36/9s are highly prone to defining themselves and their
worth in relation to others' opinions and expectations, looking for
confirmation that they are behaving in the most ideal possible way or
being the kind of person who gains others' approval.

Those working 36/9 are here to expand their vision to see that our
deepest intuitions may sometimes guide us to make "mistakes" so that
we can learn important, even life-changing lessons. Difficulties due
to a certain choice do not necessarily mean that the choice was wrong,
that they are off course, or that they can't trust their feelings.

At the same time, 36/9s do need to submit their life to a higher
authority—to the wisdom based upon their heartfelt connection to
spiritual laws—so that they can exemplify the integrity they were born
to live. Since 36/9s aim for the ideal rather than for what is realtor
them, the Law of Intuition (p. 385) can help them reconnect with the
wisest and most loving guide they can find for their own life, their
inner wisdom.

Once 36/9s accept themselves and others as they are, they open
themselves to the central challenge of their life: the wisdom to live
as an inspiring example to others. Inspiration does not require
heroics or fame but rather living an ordinary life based on higher
laws found in heart rather than on mental ideas or on physical
impulses.

Most 36/9s eventually face situations that reflect to them the need to
reconnect with their own needs and desires. As already noted, this
represents a major challenge for 36/9s because of the powerful
influence of perfectionism in imposing ideals over authentic
feelings. Ask 36/9s how they feel and they most likely answer with
their idealized image of what a "good, kind, caring, conscientious,
brave, upbeat" person would or should feel. Before they can know
themselves or be themselves, 36/9s have to connect with and accept how
they truly feel. Then they can be honest with others because they have
learned to be honest with themselves—a principle addressed by the Law
of Honesty (p. 377).

With their highly mental pattern and perfectionism, 36/9s want to get
everything just right, whether in cooking, sexual performance, or
scholastic exams. They tend to be high-strung and nervous, and their
health is extremely vulnerable to the state of their mind and
emotions. These individuals place pressure on themselves in any group
learning situation; they start out okay and then start comparing
themselves with others to "see how they are doing"; usually they end
up comparing themselves to one of the most skillful people in the
class. Because of such comparisons and because of their own
unrealistic standards, 36/9s chronically feel that they're falling
short.

Most 36/9s get discouraged and disheartened by their own un-reachable
standards and judgments, which they often imagine come from other
people, until they make a critical leap and discover that they just
might be smarter, stronger, and more valuable than they had previously
recognized. In making this leap, their sense of self-worth rises, and
with it, their enthusiasm for life. They begin to strive toward their
ideals rather than feeling like a failure for not reaching them.

Until 36/9s connect with the inner wisdom that comprises both their
struggle and their birthright, they can tend to be slow to learn the
lessons of experience. They end up wondering how they got into their
particular situation. When 36/9s make choices without considering
consequences, they learn the hard way about the law of cause and
effect in the real world. As they learn, they grow wiser, and over
time, the seeds of deep wisdom within them start to sprout as they
start to see the bigger picture of spiritual law.

Most 36/9s avoid metaphysical or spiritual ideas for a time, based on
subconscious resonance with and fear of early mystics or innovative
thinkers who were persecuted. As 36/9s clear away at least some of
their self-doubt and perfectionism, they begin to appreciate and ap- s
ply their intuitive wisdom. The world becomes a place to explore and
understand; they grow curious about the laws of reality and how things
work. They have the ability to seek and find essential truths, ancient
secrets, and perennial wisdom.

The high vision of 6 energy, the inherent depth and charisma of 9
energy, and the intuitive sensitivity of 3 energy give 36/9s an
exceptional ability to understand hidden or inner wisdom. Contrast the
analytical and creative genius of 31/4 Sigmund Freud, the founder of
psychoanalysis, with the deep archetypal discoveries of 36/9 Carl
Jung, for example. Freud strongly disapproved of Jung's ideas and
criticized him. Jung had to overcome extreme self-doubt and to honor
his own inner wisdom despite his mentor's warnings.

Those working 36/9 are here to balance their high vision and ideals
with the practical realities of this world, to accept themselves and
others, and to share their wisdom with family, friends, or the world
at large. But most of all, they are here to align themselves with the
spiritual laws revealed through the heart's intuition.

The main "teaching device" of 36/9s is not their mouth, but their
example. Like all 9s, they need to remember and embody the words of
Mahatma Gandhi: "My life is my teaching." By living in accordance with
their heart and making peace with their vision, they stand tall and
step fully into the life they were born to live.

Working 36/9 in the Positive

Having contacted the core of their true rather than their idealized
needs, desires, and feelings, the inner senses and intuitive wisdom of
these individuals are wide open. With a deep acceptance and knowledge
of reality, they can see a more perfect vision of self and world, yet
they have learned to appreciate both as they are now—as perfection in
process. They still confront self-doubt, but they have found the
courage to walk a straight line past their doubt, going where Spirit
leads them. Whether their life looks conventional or unconventional,
they live by higher laws and ideals and see the depths and higher
possibilities of life. They connect to this world through service as
they express the eternal wisdom they have contacted,

Working 36/9 in the Negative

These individuals live to please others. Their expression is blocked
as they allow themselves to be defined by others' opinions. Judgmental
about themselves and others, they are quick to spot imperfections but
feel hypersensitive to any criticism. High-strung, nervous, and
hindered by self-doubt, they play it safe, sticking with the
conventional, the routine, and the familiar, since new territory would
bring the risk of failure, which would only add to their
disappointment in self and world. Reality never seems to meet their
expectations or hopes.

Life-Path Issues

Health

No matter what their features, the refined energy field of most 36/9s
gives them an attractive appearance that people sense rather than see
with physical eyes. Cameras, however, pick up on energy fields, so
36/9s tend to "take good pictures," as the example of 36/9 Brigitte
Bardot can attest.

Combining the sensitivity of 3 energy with the high ideals of 6
energy, 36/9s can get discouraged or depressed easily when they or
others don't meet their expectations. Chronic depression can
compromise their immune system and open the way for colds, stress
headaches, or other depressive symptoms.

If working in the negative, 36/9s tend to be high-strung; sensitive
areas include the nervous system, the sexual area, and the
abdomen. They are also prone to sore throats or chronic jaw tension if
they withhold their feelings.

If 36/9s eat food not well suited to their constitution, they are
likely to experience digestive symptoms, skin eruptions, or other
feedback; over time, they learn to align their diet with their
expanding knowledge of what is optimal for them. Nutrition offers
36/9s a fundamental avenue for living by example; they learn what
happens when they eat or drink what isn't good for them. As 36/9s
learn to follow their own instincts, they are likely to gravitate
toward a fresh, varied diet and, over time, eat more of what is good
for them and less of what doesn't serve their health and vitality.

All 36/9s benefit from a daily exercise routine, whether a brisk walk,
strength exercises, or more sophisticated training. Their physical
body needs movement, stretching, and deep breathing each day to
relieve tension and stay in balance. The kind of exercise they
practice is less important than making sure they do it regularly—a few
minutes a day is better than none at all. As in other areas of life,
36/9s can ask themselves whether their exercise habits serve as an
example for others. Just seeing someone exercising eve.ry day inspires
some people. All 36/9s need to avoid making idealistic resolutions or
schemes they don't carry out or buying equipment they've never used
before. Better to start modestly and give themselves a feeling of
success and ease; the principle "A little bit of something is better
than a lot of nothing" applies strongly here. Most of all, 36/9s need
to exercise patience and experiment with what works best for them; in
this way, they learn by experience, and then they can share their life
wisdom with others.

Relationships

Feeling internal pressure to be "good" and "improve" and "do right,"
36/9s have a nervous hyperactivity and may experience trouble sitting
still unless they're tired. They are anxious to please others, and
their ideas often go straight from their mind to their mouth as they
speak rapidly to keep up with the thoughts that pour forth. This trait
affects their relationships, since people sometimes feel uncomfortable
around their high-strung energy and sensitivity. When they stay in
touch with their feelings, fewer words are necessary.

A major relationship issue for 36/9s involves ideals that block
authentic feelings. Because of this, they have a difficult time
expressing themselves honestly. Relationships provide a superb
opportunity for growth in this area.

The relationships of 36/9s, based on lofty standards, can pose a
burden for those with whom they live. But once 36/9s get past
judgments about themselves and others, they open up to relaxed and
accepting relationships.

The sexual relationships of 36/9s reflect the issues of their life
path—self-doubt, perfectionism with an emphasis on performance, and,
for some, issues of "morality." The more they work their life path in
the positive, the more loving, intimate, and pleasurable their sex
life becomes.

Talents, Work, and Finances

Those working 36/9 sometimes live what appears to be a very
conventional life and may avoid spiritual or metaphysical ideas due to
subconscious fears or self-doubt. Beneath their sometimes conventional
appearance lies an ocean of intuitive spiritual wisdom. Even though it
might be the farthest thing from their mind, at some point they
develop an interest in the deeper aspects of life, even if this
doesn't show on the surface. Many, in their own way, bring fresh
insights, perspectives, and information into the world, as Carl Jung's
life demonstrates. These 36/9s can understand anything and teach
it. For example, if they choose to practice bodywork as a profession,
their practice leads them to new methods and approaches to get better,
deeper results. Many fields, such as acting, teaching, bodywork,
writing, psychotherapy, or business, to name a few, can utilize the
charisma, high standards, and expressive energy of 36/9s.

Their innate but often hidden wisdom will lead them, despite their own
issues and doubts, to making a good living. Their financial problems
do not arise from having too little, but from wanting more than they
have in order to meet their ideals.
