38/11

11: Double Creativity and Confidence
8: Abundance and Power
3: Expression and Sensitivity
Understanding Life Purpose

Those on the 38/11 life path are here to combine creativity and
material success, learning to apply their power and express their
energy with compassion and generosity. They are not here to achieve
wealth or influence for their own sakes, but rather in service of a
larger cause, whether a small circle of friends or colleagues, or the
community at large.

What we're here to do doesn't come easily; the life purpose of 38/lls
is no exception. With a creative drive even more powerful than other
double Is due to the influence of 8 energy, 38/lls have to deal with
powerful insecurity and self-doubt, as well as a tendency to give
away, avoid, or sabotage their own power or abundance. They often do
this with their mouth, since they also deal with expression issues.

On their life path, 38/lls must eventually get in touch with and
express their feelings and sensitivities, overcome self-doubt, and
deal with 8 energy and issues related to repressed anger toward
authorities so they can take on their own authority.

Using the method outlined in this book for determining birth numbers,
we do not add together the final two digits of four-digit birth
numbers. However, if we did add them together (1 +1), we would end up
with 38/11/2, adding the potential influence of cooperative energy (2)
for 38/lls, along with double creativity (11). This means that until
38/lls mature, their independent, even controlling nature may make
them difficult to work with; they may be overly solicitous and helpful
at first, but if they overhelp, the 2 energy will send them rebounding
into resentment.

These inherently powerful individuals, whose power may alternately
feel suppressed or exp1osive, have the energy and drive to make money
and make waves. Their lifework, in whatever form it takes, involves
learning to control themselves (rather than others) and directing
their considerable power and energy to creative contributions that
uplift and empower those around them, helping others find their own
source of energy and inspiration.

Most 38/lls feel they can't give enough and can't receive
enough. Combining emotional sensitivity and raw, though often
inhibited, power, they are driven by powerful creative energy. They
may spend their life holding a tiger by the tail until they tame that
tiger and learn to channel their energy in positive ways. Otherwise,
they may suffer addictions to drugs, orgasms, or food.

With the power and authority issues of 8, most 38/lls can get preachy
and didactic or bossy and controlling; these attributes can affect
anyone working 8, but for 38/lls, the issues of 8 energy are amplified
by the presence of the double 1.

Like all Is or double Is, 38/lls also have to deal with insecurity
issues, which for them are compounded by a tendency to repress or
withhold the power associated with 8. The more 38/lls dedicate their
life to a common cause or higher purpose that extends beyond them, in
accordance with the Law of Higher Will (p. 381), the more they purify
the 8 energy and release their creative energy, which generates the
courage to step forward into life.

Working 38/11 in the Positive

Brilliant and powerful leaders or dynamic creative advisers, these
individuals can solve long-standing problems, create new options, and
open doors to a better world. Money isn't the main issue for them;
they apply their energy, and there's always enough. They give and
receive without keeping track of the score, and they attract others
with their powerful energy field. They help empower others, and they
share abundantly. They've learned to lead from a position of equality
and mutual respect. Driving the material success path with a tidal
wave of energy makes for an exciting, productive life.  Working 38/11

in the Negative

These individuals outmaneuver, outcompete, and overcontrol others,
often through manipulation. Too unsure to put themselves on the line,
they deny their power and sabotage their success or, alternately, they
exploit their power and seek to achieve success by dominating or
outshining others. Avoiding exercise, they struggle with addictions
due to blocked creative energy. Frustrated by pent-up energy, they
alienate others due to an aloof, negative exterior, but underneath
churn gnawing self-doubts and insecurities.

Life-Path Issues

Health

Those working 38/11 combine a mixture of vulnerable areas and traits
associated with 3 (blocked expression affecting the throat area)
double 1 (reproductive area, lower abdomen, lower back), and 8
(possible self-sabotage in the form of accidents or, less frequently,
burnout from overwork). This doesn't imply that 38/lls will
necessarily suffer any illness or accidents; maladies most often come
when these individuals work negative patterns, and they can be viewed
as life's feedback, signaling the need to change old habits.

The most effective healing methodologies for 38/lls include positive
visualizations, work with beliefs, acupuncture, bodywork, or other
relatively subtle work with the mind and energy field. As long as they
keep their creative energy flowing, 38/lls have sturdy dispositions
and enjoy stable, vigorous health. Those working 38/11 like to make
their own rules about nutrition. Most 38/lls are too busy to make food
a central issue in their lives (except for creative cooking); for most
38/lls, food is just fuel for their life and ambitions. A vegetarian
or modified vegetarian diet helps to balance a tendency toward
aggressiveness.

Like other double Is, 38/lls need a great deal of exercise to release
and ground their creative energy. Once in shape, they thrive under a
daily routine of aerobic exercise.

Relationships

Even though they can appear very secure, the double 1 and the 3 mean
that 38/lls often seek out one or more partners to give them a better
sense of themselves. Most 38/lls have paradoxical energy in that they
need a strong person to lean on and yet they tend to control everybody
in their world.

The nature of their relationships and sexuality reveals much about how
38/lls are working through their life issues. Most 38/lls find that
issues of power and control, as well as insecurity, may enter the
bedroom with them. They may use sexuality and their partner as a means
of release without applying sensitivity to their partner's needs; they may give
away their power or abuse it. Sexually, they either like to be in
charge or they like to be overpowered. Bondage and sexual power games
were probably invented by a 38/11.

Of course, when working in the positive, 38/lls can have mutually
satisfying relationships, sexual and otherwise. In any case, their
personal relationships serve as a mirror to help them understand and
balance their lives.

Talents, Work, and Finances

Most 38/lls are natural leaders with the important qualities of
authority, sensitivity, and creativity that can help solve any
problem. They can make admirable or despicable politicians, depending
upon whether they're working their issues with power and creativity in
positive or negative ways, applying power wisely and with authority or
using power to subjugate others.

While not all 38/lls serve in obvious positions of authority, they may
guide others at school, at work, or at home through their innately
powerful mind and creative ideas. They make capable inventors,
innovators, and leaders in creative fields, such as business or fine
arts. Many 38/lls work as business entrepreneurs, empire builders,
heads of state, or heads of small businesses. Whether preachers or
problem solvers, they stand out in their field.

In the financial area, 38/lls may experience self-sabotage, both
desire and fear, and a tendency toward feast or famine. Having a
stable, conservative personal or business partner who is good with
money can help. When 38/lls dedicate their creativity toward the
common good, making a positive difference in the world, money comes to
them naturally. The more energy and service they put into the world,
the more money comes back.


