34/7 & 43/7

7: Trust and Openness

4: Stability and Process

3: Expression and Sensitivity

Understanding Life Purpose

Those on the 34/7 or 43/7 life path are here to work through issue of
trust, patience, and emotional expression and to have faith in the
spiritual process operating within their life, establishing security
by finding practical ways to contribute to others. Both these life
paths present the opportunity of blending the incisive mind of 7s with
the down-to-earth practicality of mature 4s and the sensitivity and
expressiveness of 3s.

Because of the influence of 4, finding a sense of communion or
unconditional trust depends on 34/7s and 43/7s following a
step-by-step process of self-discovery. The deeper they go inside, the
farther 34/7s and 43/7s see outside.

Since our life purpose always offers some tests and hurdles, 34/7s and
43/7s may feel their energies in conflict, polarized, and pulling in
different directions: While 7 tends to pull them "upward," into the
higher mind or in some cases into metaphysical interests and
practices, 4 tends to pull them "downward," into daily life, family,
and practical business concerns. As these 7 and 4 energies mature and
integrate, they form a powerful synthesis, enabling 34/7s and 43/7s to
build a kind of bridge between heaven and Earth in creative ways, such
as making money while bringing more beauty, happiness, or awareness
into the world. 

Most 34/7s and 43/7s c1osely resemble one another, except for the
reverse order of the first two numbers; while 4 predominates with the
primary 7 for 34/7s, 3 predominates with the primary 7 for
43/7s. Because of this, 34/7s experience more acutely issues dealing
with stability and process in relation to self-trust; they confront a
stronger tendency to skip steps, with secondary drives and issues
related to expression and self-doubt. In contrast, 43/7s deal less
with process issues and more with emotional sensitivity, including
issues of expression and self-doubt, which make them slower to come to
self-trust; therefore, 43/7s generally find their confidence later in
life. Other than these rising and falling influences, both these life
paths include the same fundamental energies, which interact to form
powerful, sensitive, insightful individuals and challenging as well as
versatile life issues. 

Both 34/7s and 43/7s are here to harmonize apparent opposites and to
blend practicality and mysticism, outer and inner experience, flesh
and spirit, worldly business and spiritual pursuits. They sometimes
accomplish this through a "spiritual business," whether associated
with a particular religion or, for example, selling books or teaching
seminars devoted to themes of religion, spirituality, or personal
growth.

Whether or not 34/7s and 43/7s work in holistic business enterprises,
they are here to bridge two worlds. The 3 indicates a drive for
expression, and for uplifting others while living fully in the world
rather than in a monastery, ashram, or forest.

Generally, 34/7s and 43/7s feel safer in the realm of the mind because
of their exceptional analytical abilities, but they also have powerful
emotions. They can act emotionally compulsive or impulsive, but the
emotional sensitivity of 3 helps balance their mental energy.

Both 34/7s and 43/7s experience a drive toward security, toward
family, and toward business. Confronting issues in the area of
foundations (4) means that they have to learn to ground themselves in
the practical realities of life, which helps balance the imagination
and flights of fancy of 7 and 5. They need to fulfill the practical
part of their life and establish a stable base from which to build,
step-by-step, a "staircase to Spirit." For 34/7s and 43/7s, a
step-by-step stairway is a more apt metaphor than a springboard,
because their life will rise or fall on the strength of their
foundation and the care they take along their journey. A skipped step
sends them tumbling back into self-doubt and isolation.

People working these two life paths share 7 energy with 25/7s, but
they have stronger emotional energy because of the 3. Like 25/7s,
neither 34/7s nor 43/7s, by tendency, fully trust their feelings. They
have fears and expectations that they will be misunderstood, so they
don't share, which in turn creates misunderstandings. By applying the
Law of Expectations (p. 373), they can turn this tendency around,
forming positive expectations and working toward positive outcomes.

Working 34/7 or 43/7 in the Positive

Strong, practical, physical, and spiritual, these individuals have
learned to trust the mystery and wisdom of life working through them
and through everyone else. These freethinkers trust in the process of
their life, including the ups and downs, the difficulties and
joys. Meditation, which quiets their mind, brings a sense of harmony
and peace as a regular part of their life. Combining worldly interests
with a commitment toward inner growth, these individuals dedicate
their work, relationships, and activities to growth and
awakening. They share their insightful nature based on direct
experience and feel connected to Spirit even while pursuing the
practical concerns of everyday life.

Working 34/7 or 43/7 in the Negative

These individuals feel torn between conflicting drives for security
and desires to go inward and get away from the material
world. Confused and troubled by a human world they don't trust, they
see hypocrisy everywhere, reflecting the turmoil they feel
inside. Self-doubt only aggravates self-trust issues, so they
constantly look for teachers, techniques, and ideas that can help
them; they become wandering spiritual vagabonds, seldom putting down
roots long enough for anything to grow in their lives. Alternately,
they want nothing to do with "crazy" spiritual things. Even though
they may appear sociable and gregarious, they are wary of sharing
their feelings and end up feeling alone.

Life-Path Issues

Health

Combining the sensitivity of 3 with the sturdiness of 4 and the mental
capacity of 7 energy, 34/7s and 43/7s generally have strong bodies,
but they still have a hard time trusting their own instincts or
intuition. Due to subtle fears that their body may not know how to
"take care of itself/' they seek solutions in either pharmaceuticals,
surgery, or subtle medicines, herbs, and food supplements. When they
begin trusting their instincts—for example, taking vitamins when their
body tells them such vitamins are needed—they know instinctively just
what to do and when to do it. Both 34/7s and 43/7s need to pay special
attention to their own body's messages. Nutrition is an arena for
learning self-trust; they need to listen to the body's wisdom and
messages, not just the mind's ideas of what the body needs. They do
best to avoid the tendency to follow others' theories of what's good
for them and first confirm the advice with their own insides. Their
body works with their higher instincts to maintain the strongest
possible constitution.

A low-fat, varied diet that helps maintain a sense of lightness and
clarity benefits them, and most 34/7s and 43/7s do well to avoid dairy
products. Issues with knees or the throat can appear when they are
withholding expression.

Strong physically and rarely ill unless stressed, both 34/7s and 43/7s
can experience anxiety or "hysteria," which can take the form of
nervous breakdowns. Those 34/7s and 43/7s who have matured along their
path seldom experience such maladies. If they do have a breakdown,
however, 34/7s and 43/7s may need to be hospitalized temporarily,
although they usually recover quickly. On the rare occasions when they
experience a breakdown, it's best for them to accept the process and
go through it without resistance. Afterward, they can appreciate all
they have learned from the experience.

34/7s and 43/7s appreciate forms of skill training that have deeper
meaning than just doing push-ups to get bigger muscles. Martial arts
furnish an exceptional means to develop deeper trust in the body's
spontaneous ability to learn and move. Dance or any free-movement form
or sport can benefit them greatly. Routines that combine body, mind,
and spirit usually hold their interest longest.

Relationships

In the positive, 34/7s and 43/7s bring stability, constancy, and
feeling quality to their relationships. The 3 softens their tendency
to stay mental. As long as they have developed open, honest
communication and associated trust with their partner, their
relationship thrives.

Trust issues for 34/7s and 43/7s center on a subtle, underlying sense
of feeling uncomfortable. They're not entirely relaxed when they're
with others; it's as if they might say the wrong thing, which they
sometimes set themselves up to do.

The quality of their relationships and their sexual life depends upon
openness, trust, and the vulnerability to share their feelings and
"let go" to the point of ecstatic intimacy. Although they enjoy the
comforts of home and family, these strong, spiritual personalities
won't always stay in relationship for the sake of internal processing
and growth.

Talents, Work, and Finances

Multifaceted energies create special challenges, abilities, and
opportunities for 34/7s and 43/7s. The blend of 7, 4, and 3 makes for
a much stronger, more resilient life path than any single number "on
its own." Both 34/7s and 43/7s have strong creative and expressive
potential, and they excel in a variety of fields, including
metaphysics, martial arts, acting or producing, business, and creative
writing, especially screenplays, due to their good structural
sense. They do well as long as they trust themselves but stay open to
feedback and take any project step-by-step.

Many 34/7s, in particular, have compulsive and impulsive spending
patterns; both 34/7s and 43/7s can behave frivolously with
money. Ultimately, the state of their finances depends upon the
process they follow and whether they have prepared for an occupation
that makes good use of their skills. If not, self-doubt leaves them
doing "a little bit of this, a little bit of that."
